Title: King Edward, Part VI
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: False
Price: 300
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]King Edward, Part VI



[/font=4]

[/center] Chap 6: Training

[/center]

[/center] The day Edward was to leave the Archmagister summoned him,
presented him with  a mithril staff and bade him farewell.

 Back in his small cell Edward removed his novitiate robe
and donned the  grey shirt, black pants and red sash he'd worn
to the Tower. He fingered  the sash lovingly. His mother had
purchased the shirt and pants, saying  they looked sturdy and
maybe wouldn't show the dirt from the journey.  Moraelyn had
given him the silk sash with its embroidery of twined leaves 
and flowers, birds and butterflies in mithril, dwarven
and elven metallic  threads. But he'd waited until they were across the
channel. Aliera had  said it cost too dear; she'd suggested
cutting down one of Moraelyn's old  ones to fit, but the elf had adamantly refused to let
her have any of  them. Edward smiled, remembering, and
wrapped the sash twice round his  waist then knotted the ends
carefully. He took the staff and ran down to  meet his
parents.

 He'd meant to fling himself at them, but Moraelyn was alone and Edward  stopped still.
"Where's my mother? Is she--?"

 "She wanted to stay and choose a horse for you. Didn't trust
it to Beech."

 "A horse? For me! Really?"

 "Of course. You can't walk all the way to Morrowwind."

 "I thought I'd have to ride behind--someone. Look, the
Archmagister gave me  my staff! Isn't it beautiful?"

 The elf took it and hefted it, trying a few swings and
feints. "Good  balance and weight for thee, I think. Light for
me. Show me how you use  it. Suppose I attack you." He used
his bare hands and Edward fell into a  defensive position,
blocked him, then thrust the staff toward Moraelyn's  ribs. He
danced easily aside, but praised the boy.

 "A mage should have a dagger, too. I thought you might like
to have Tooth  here." Edward's eye popped. Tooth had an
ebony blade and a hilt made from  a real dragon's tooth. The elf slid it from its sheath and handed it to  Edward who took it carefully.
The blade had a wicked point and the edge  was sharp enough to
shave with. Mats borrowed it sometimes. He'd carved  the hilt,
too.

 "Are you sure Mats doesn't mind?"

 "Quite sure." Moraelyn unbuckled his belt and slid the sheath off it.  There was a new belt for
Edward of snakeskin, soft and pliable and a  buckle with the black rose of Morrowwind on it, just like
Moraelyn's.  "It's from the Companions." He knelt to fit the
belt and dagger and the  sash over it properly, and Edward threw his arms about his neck.
"It's  wonderful. I do thank thee and them, too! And oh, I've
missed all of thee  so much."

 "We missed you, too, son. Let's go or we'll miss our tide."

 "I wouldn't want to worry mother," he said, trying to
sound casual about  having a mother that would worry about
him.

 "No fear; I told her not to look for us until tomorrow
night....just in  case. But we'll surprise her."

 "Good thinking."

 They made good speed and reached the inlet before the tide
was full.

 "Shall I show you how to use Tooth, or would you rather
rest?"

 "Tooth! I can rest in the boat while you work."

 Moraelyn shielded himself and Edward too, saying that
Tooth's bite was no  joke. "I could have shielded myself,"
Edward said proudly. "I'm good at  that. But my Heals go
all wrong."

 "It'll come. Give it time."

 Evidently Tooth wanted time too. Try as he might, he
couldn't get near the  elf with the blade, even though
Moraelyn kept his feet planted and simply  swerved his body,
ducking and weaving...and laughing. Frustrated, Edward 
sheathed Tooth and picked up the staff and whacked at him,
swinging it  with both hands. It wasn't doing any harm, but
it made satisfying sounds  as it thwacked against the spell
shield. Moraelyn let him hit, but stopped  the staff easily
when the spell had been used up. Edward threw it on the 
ground and turned away; the elf reached for him in
consolation. Edward  snatched Tooth from the sheath and
thrust it straight at the elf's heart.  The blade was knocked
spinning from his hand. Edward had braced to stop  the thrust
and hold it and he felt the shock even through his shield. Then  Moraelyn was
kneeling before him, nursing his left hand across his right 
knee, his face grey with shock and disbelief. Blood was
gushing from his  wrist like a fountain. "Give me thy sash!"

 "I--I didn't--" Edward's teeth were rattling in his head. He
felt sick and  dizzy. Bile washed up in his mouth. "D-d-didn't--m-m-mean." So much blood.

 "Boy, don't faint now. I need thy aid. The sash. Now, Edward! Pack it into  the wound. Gods, what a mess!" The hand was
half severed at the wrist.  Edward sat down abruptly,
shaking all over, but his hands packed the sash  into the open 
wound, then he wrapped the
rest round the hand and wrist.

 "Take my sash and make a sling." Moraelyn eased the injured
limb into the  sling and then released his other hand. He took
the water bottle from his  belt and drank it down. "I need
more water. Where's thy staff? There's a  well two miles
back. Where's Tooth? Go find it and don't cut yourself on
it."

 "I don't want it."

 "Not many blades have bathed in Moraelyn's blood. 'Twill
bring you luck.  Do as I say."

 "The tide's in."

 "Aye and Firsthold could be on Jone for all the good it does
us. I can't  row one handed."

 "I could--"

ound, then he wrapped the
rest round the hand and wrist.

 "Take my sash and make a sling." Moraelyn eased the injured
limb into the  sling and then released his other hand. He took
the water bottle from his  belt and drank it down. "I need
more water. Where's thy staff? There's a  well two miles
back. Where's Tooth? Go find it and don't cut yourself on
it."

 "I don't want it."

 "Not many blades have bathed in Moraelyn's blood. 'Twill
bring you luck.  Do as I say."

 "The tide's in."

 "Aye and Firsthold could be on Jone for all the good it does
us. I can't  row one handed."

 "I could--"

 "No, you cannot. You haven't the strength. The current's
swift here. I  prefer to die on land. Edward, we cannot stay
here. The blood smell will  draw beasts. If I faint, get well away and climb a tree. And pray." He  climbed
to his feet and leaned on the staff, breathing hard. "Stay
close,  but don't grab at me, no matter what happens." He took
a small step, then another.

 "I'm sorry."

 "Doubtless. You picked a poor time and place to turn
assassin. A good  assassin always has an escape planned."

 "Yessir." Edward sniffed back his tears. "Sir, I cannot
Heal you, but I  can restore some vigor."

 "Can you? 'T'would be of great help." The spell Edward
cast shook the elf;  he gasped, but stood straighter and firmer
after the shock wore off. "I  can do it again," Edward offere
d eagerly.

 "Nay. You have plenty of power but want finesse. But 'tis much better, now."

 Moraelyn was walking better; he sounded better too. Edward
tried to blot  the picture of the injury out of his mind. They
moved slowly, Moraelyn  leaning against a tree from time to time to rest. Nothing
molested them.  After an interminable time of silent
travelling they reached the old well.  Moraelyn drained the
first bottle and Edward refilled it, drank himself,  then
filled it yet again.

 "We'll spend the night in there." 'There' was a large
ramshackle building,  apparently deserted. The elf kicked
the locked door open. Inside it was  pitch dark. "Light?"
Edward offered.

 "Nay. I can see. Save your power and stay by me." There
was a skittering  noise. Rats! Edward shielded them both
without thinking, pulled Tooth out,  and placed his back to
 eagerly.

 "Nay. You have plenty of power but want finesse. But 'tis much better, now."

 Moraelyn was walking better; he sounded better too. Edward
tried to blot  the picture of the injury out of his mind. They
moved slowly, Moraelyn  leaning against a tree from time to time to rest. Nothing
molested them.  After an interminable time of silent
travelling they reached the old well.  Moraelyn drained the
first bottle and Edward refilled it, drank himself,  then
filled it yet again.

 "We'll spend the night in there." 'There' was a large
ramshackle building,  apparently deserted. The elf kicked
the locked door open. Inside it was  pitch dark. "Light?"
Edward offered.

 "Nay. I can see. Save your power and stay by me." There
was a skittering  noise. Rats! Edward shielded them both
without thinking, pulled Tooth out,  and placed his back to
the elf's. A rat leaped and drove itself onto the  blade.
Moraelyn swung the staff and laid out two more. Others
scurried off.

 "Well done, lad!" They found a small windowless room and shut the door  behind them. There
seemed to be some wood about; probably it had been some 
sort of storage room off the kitchen. Moraelyn sat down
against the wall.

 "So. You can use a knife. Was all that pretense? To put me
off my guard?"

 Edward was appalled. He burst into tears, protesting that
he'd never harm  Moraelyn willingly. "I meant it for jest;
I thought it'd make you  laugh...I was angry, at first, but
at myself, my clumsiness, not you...it  was a sudden thought....I love you dear!"

 The elf reached out with his good arm and pulled Edward
down to him.  "That's worth a hand, then, any day."

 Edward sobbed against his shoulder while Moraelyn soothed him with
pats.  "You are my real father."

 "Edward, I am not..."

 "Nay, thou art. Thee puts my well-being ahead of thine and
loves me when I  least deserve it. Thee's been kind and
generous and never asked anything  of me save to my own
profit. Thee'd give thy very life for mine. That's  what real
fathers do. And I've given thee naught but pain. He who sired
me  despises me and my mother because we are unlike him. We are
not like you  either, and yet you love us well. I will do
better by you, dear Father."

 "I gave thee cause enough for offense. I took thy mother from
thee."

 "You risked losing her because you would not part me from
my father. You  did not know me and my father was your bitter
enemy. And yet you took  thought for us. You could not know how unnatural he is. It
 isn't in you."

 "Granted. And yet the offense and your anger at it
remain."

 "I love you!" Edward protested. But he heard an angry edge
in his voice.

 "And hate me." Moraelyn's voice was so calm and quiet that
they might have  been discussing the weather.

 "I can't do both....can I?"

 "Can you?"

 "I didn't mean to hurt you."

 "I believe you."

 "Am I -- am I, evil? I _was_ sorry; I'd give anything if it
hadn't  happened, but--I--".

 "Took some measure of satisfaction in it."

isn't in you."

 "Granted. And yet the offense and your anger at it
remain."

 "I love you!" Edward protested. But he heard an angry edge
in his voice.

 "And hate me." Moraelyn's voice was so calm and quiet that
they might have  been discussing the weather.

 "I can't do both....can I?"

 "Can you?"

 "I didn't mean to hurt you."

 "I believe you."

 "Am I -- am I, evil? I _was_ sorry; I'd give anything if it
hadn't  happened, but--I--".

 "Took some measure of satisfaction in it."

 Edward's throat was choked with sobs; he couldn't speak, but
nodded into  Moraelyn's shoulder. The elf's hand stroked him
gently.

 "Did I'ric tell you of the Daedra?"

 "The demons? No. Is it a demon makes me do such things? I am
evil, then."

 "No, you are not. But the daedra feed on actions such as
that.  They--encourage them. And your anger draws them. But
they can't make you  do anything. And they or it's not inside
you. But it is connected to you."

 "I don't want it. I want it to go away. How can I make it go
away?"

 "Why don't you want it? You draw power from it. That's what let you shield 
us both with the rats attacked."

 "Mana? That doesn't come from demons."

 "No, but the ability to use it can. Look, some of your deeds
feed the  daedra. But you draw power from it at the same
time. Then the power's  yours, to use as you choose."

 "Do you have a daedra?"

 "I do and it's a big one, too, but I think everyone has one
or more. Some  are stronger than others, that's all. But
don't go around asking after  them. It's not polite."

 "I want mine to go away!" Edward wailed.

 "So you say. But pretending it isn't there will not accomplish that.  Having a daedra
is a bit like riding a horse. You must keep control. The 
daedra do not care for you. It would as lief feed off your
pain or injury  or death as any other, and find a new host. They
do not think or plan as  we can and I do not think they
experience time as we do. So acts that feed  the daedra take
place in the moment and while you are caught up in them,  past
and future cease to exist for you too. It is an intensely
pleasurable  experience, but it can also be very dangerous.
And very addictive, so that  you begin to think only of
feeding your daedra. You cease to think of the  gods and those
you love and even yourself. When you have walked too far 
along that path, you lose the will to choose another."

 "How terrible! What must I do then?"

 "It is terrible, the worst that can befall a person.
Remember this night.  How you felt. Learn to recognize the
daedra's hunger for what it is, and  think about what you do. You are young and this is
heavy for you, but you  are at risk. Ah!" The elf's body
stiffened and he caught his breath.  Edward guessed that the wound was paining him. 

 Moraelyn said that he must sleep a bit, and could Edward
keep watch and  wake him in an hour's time. Then he could set a
lock on the door and they  could both rest.

 "Aye, sir...and I might do somewhat more. I cannot set a
lock, but..." The  door would not latch, nor would it stay
open, but would swing nearly shut.  Edward felt about near
the wall behind it and found a wedge. He shut the  door and
drove the wedge home with a chunk of wood. "I thought so. 'Tis
 awkward to pass such a door with both arms full of wood. We
have such at  ho--in Gerald's palace. Now anything trying to
come in will rouse you; you  can use your power to cast heal
instead of lock."

 "Why, well thought of, indeed." He freed his blade and laid it on the  floor beside him. "We may as
well both sleep then."

 They slept fitfully. There were often scrabblings at the
door and in the  walls, but nothing entered their small
closet. Moraelyn cast Heal several  time during the night.
By morning he pronounced himself as fit "as a  one-handed man
can be." He unwrapped the sash-bandage and inspected the 
wound. The bleeding was stopped; the hand was still warm to
the touch; it  no longer hurt him nor was it swollen or
discolored. But the wound was  still open and the hand
useless. Nerves and muscles had been severed and  some of the
small bones broken. Such repair was beyond his skill.
Edward,  feeling the daedra feed on the sight, turned quickly
away.

 Moraelyn grinned. "You may as well let it feed; it's a
harmless sort of  feeding. The damage is done."

 "I mean to starve it," Edward said firmly.

 "You can try to do that or you can learn to control it
instead, and still  walk with the gods. I think we'd best go
back to the Tower."

 "Aye, they'll be able to heal you there, will they not?"

 "I know not. At the least they'll be able to attach it more firmly than it  is at present. Ah, do not look so downcast. The skill to mend it is  somewhere, if not in the Tower.
Ssa'ass is good with battle injuries and  there are Temples which know more
of the healing arts than the Tower  mages. Besides, it's only
my left hand." He held up the wadded sash, stiff  with his dried blood. "The color's more practical t
han thy mother
thought.  Let's see if we can wash it out a bit. Never have I
come so ill-equipped  on a journey. I might have been
strolling down the main street in  Ebonheart. Thy mother will
kill me."

 "Right after she kills me," Edward sighed. "At least
returning to the  Tower will delay that." They came out into the bright courtyard. The  morning sun was
already high in the western sky.

 "Not so. Edward, the Companions are coming now! I hear
them. Mara, let me  think of a real good lie!" 

 Mith trotted into the courtyard. "Here they are!" he called
back to the  others. By Torgo, you ARE injured. Let me see
that. We thought to row  across to meet you; we saw the blood on the shore and tracked you here. 
What attacked you?"

 "A demon."

 "A demon! What!? In the open like that in daylight? Gods,
an thy mother
thought.  Let's see if we can wash it out a bit. Never have I
come so ill-equipped  on a journey. I might have been
strolling down the main street in  Ebonheart. Thy mother will
kill me."

 "Right after she kills me," Edward sighed. "At least
returning to the  Tower will delay that." They came out into the bright courtyard. The  morning sun was
already high in the western sky.

 "Not so. Edward, the Companions are coming now! I hear
them. Mara, let me  think of a real good lie!" 

 Mith trotted into the courtyard. "Here they are!" he called
back to the  others. By Torgo, you ARE injured. Let me see
that. We thought to row  across to meet you; we saw the blood on the shore and tracked you here. 
What attacked you?"

 "A demon."

 "A demon! What!? In the open like that in daylight? Gods,
what was it  carrying, an ebony dai-katana?" Mith whistled
as he inspected the injury.  Aliera and the others ran up.
She hugged Edward, "Are you all right,  darling? I was worried." then paled as she
saw her husband's hand.

 "You must be slowing down. How'd you let a demon do that to you?" Mith 
demanded. 

 "It was the boy...he grabbed at my arm in fright and my
shield spell  failed. It wasn't his fault; it was an
accident. Ali, don't look at it.  Edward, why don't you take
thy mother to see the rat you killed?"

 "I want to watch Ssa'ass," Edward objected, then
remembered that it would  feed his daedra. But he might
learn something about healing if he watched,  which would be a
good thing. This was going to be more complicated than  he'd
thought.

 "Oh, Edward," Aliera said. "You must keep clear in a
fight."

 "He killed a rat in the old inn there, after. Did right well.
Kept his  head, put his back to mine, shielded us both.
Anyone's apt to panic in his  first fight. Especially if he isn't expecting it."

 Ssa'ass came up last, as usual, elbowed the others aside and inspected the  injury, hissing. "I cann
fixxxx thissss. It'ss cleann." He looked it over  carefully,
bending the hand back to open the wound. Then he brought the 
hand forward, so that the edges of the tissue met. He was
very particular  about getting it aligned just so. Then he
had Mats hold it in place while  he cast spells over it. All
outer traces of the injury vanished, leaving  not even a
scar. Moraelyn swung it with satisfaction, twitching his 
fingers. "Thanks, Ssa'ass. It's stiff, but..."

 "Tomorrow, I ffinissshhh."

 "My poor baby," Aliera fussed over Edward. "You must have
been so  frightened. And you spent the whole night in that awful house?"

 "I'm not a baby. I wasn't afraid; my father was there." 
