Title: The Real Barenziah, Part VI
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: True
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Real

[/center]Barenziah

[/center]Part VI



[/font=4]



[/center]

 "You dance on the edge of a volcano, child," Drelliane scolded, as Barenziah
admired the emerald ring her lover had given her to
celebrate their one month anniversary.

 "How so? We make one another happy. We harm no one. Symmachus
bade me to be discriminate and discreet. Who better could I
choose? And we've been most discreet. He treats me as a
daughter in public." Tiber Septim's nightly visits were
made through a secret passage.

 "He slavers over you like a dog his dinner. Have you not
noticed the coolness of the Empress and her son toward you?"

 Barenziah shrugged. Even before she and Septim had become
lovers she'd had no more from his family than bare civility.
Threadbare civility. "What matter? It is Tiber who holds
power."

 "It is his son who holds the future. Do not hold his mother up
to public scorn, I beg you."

 "Can I help it if that dry stick of a woman cannot hold her
husband's interest even in conversation at dinner?"

 "Have less to say in public. That is all I ask. She matters
little, save that her children love her, and you do not want
them as enemies. Tiber Septim has not long to live. I mean,"
Drelliane amended quickly, at Barenziah's scowl, "Humans are
all short-lived. Temporary, as we elves say. They come and
go as the seasons do, but the families of the powerful live
on for a time. You must be a family friend if you would see lasting profit from your relationship. Ah, how can I
make you truly see, you who are so young and human-bred as
well! If you take care you and Mournhold are like to live to
see the fall of Septim's dynasty, if indeed he has founded
one, as you have seen its rise. It is the way of human history.
They ebb and flow like the tides. Their cities and even their
empires bloom like spring flowers, only to wither and die
in the summer sun."

 Barenziah just laughed. She knew that rumors abounded about
her and Tiber Septim. She enjoyed the attention for all
save the Empress and her son seemed captivated by her. Bards
sang of her dark beauty and her charming ways. She was in
fashion and in love and if it was temporary, well, what was
not? She was happy for the first time she could remember,
each day filled with joy and pleasure, and the nights yet
better.

 "What is wrong with me?" Barenziah lamented. "Look, not one
of my skirts fit? What's become of my waist? Am I getting
fat?" Barenziah regarded her thin arms and legs and her
undeniably thickened waist in the mirror with displeasure. 

 Drelliane shrugged. "You appear to be with child, young as
you are. Constant pairing with a human has brought you early
to fertility. I see no choice but for you to speak with him
about it. You are in his power. It would be best, I think,
for you to go directly to Mournhold if he will agree, and
bear the child there."

 "Alone?" Barenziah placed her hands on her swollen belly,
tears forming in her eyes. Everything in her yearned to share
the fruit of her love with her lover. "He'll ne'er agree to
that. He won't be parted from me now. You'll see."

 Drelliane shook her gray head. Although she said no more, a
look of sympathy and sorrow had replaced her usual cool
scorn.

 That night Barenziah told Tiber Septim of it when he came to
her.

 "With child?" He looked shocked. Stunned. "You're sure of
it? I was told elves do not bear so young."

 Barenziah summoned a smile. "How can I be sure? I've never --
"

 "I'll fetch my healer."

 The healer, a high elf of middle years, confirmed that
Barenziah was indeed pregnant and that such a thing had never
before been known to happen. It was a testimony to His
Excellency's potency, the healer said sycophantically.
Tiber Septim snarled at him. "This must not be," he said.
"Undo it."

 "Sire," the healer gaped at him. "I cannot--."

 "Of course you can," he snapped. "I command you do so."

 Barenziah, wide-eyed with sudden terror, sat up in the bed.
"No!" she screamed. "No! What are you saying?"

 "My dear child," Tiber Septim sat down beside her with his
winning smile. "I'm so sorry. Truly. But this cannot be.
Your child could be a threat to my son and his sons. I will
put it no more plainly than that."

 "The child I bear is your child!" she wailed.

 "No. It's but a possibility, a might be, not yet gifted with
a soul or quickened into life. I will not have it so." He
gave the healer another hard stare and the elf began to
tremble.

 "It is her child. Children are few among elves. No woman
conceives more than four and that is very rare. Two is the
allotted number. Some bear none, some only one. If I take
this one from her, she may not conceive again."

 "You told me she would not bear to me. I've little faith in
your prognostications."

 Barenziah scrambled naked from her bed, and ran for the
door, not knowing where she was going, only that she could not
stay. She never reached the door for blackness took her.

 Barenziah awoke to pain and emptiness. Drelliane was there to
soothe the pain and clean the blood that pooled between her
legs, but there was nothing to fill the emptiness. Tiber
Septim sent gifts and flowers, and came for short visits,
always well attended. Barenziah received these visits with
pleasure, but he came no more at night nor did she wish for
him. After a week, when she was physically recovered, it was
announced that Symmachus had requested she come to Mournhold
earlier than planned, and that she would leave forthwith.
She was given a splendid retinue, a wardrobe befitting a
queen and a ceremonial departure from the gates of
Imperial City. 
