Title: The Ebon Arm
Author: Witten Rol
IsNaughty: False
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Ebon Arm



[/font=4]

[/center]

[/center] The ground shakes. The great armies continue to wage their
unrelenting battle. The battlefield is red, the rivers flow
crimson, the sky reflects a deep pink. In the distance
lightning flashes, and thunder sounds.  Two huge ravens begin
circling the field; their blackness is vibrant against the
various shades of red in this vista of death and suffering.
The bright flashes of light and rumbling begin to increase.
The redness surrounding the battlefield begins giving way
to a golden glow from the east, almost like a summer's
setting sun. From the false sunset a massive golden stallion
and single rider approach. All become suddenly still on
the field of battle as both sides recognize  Reymon Ebonarm,
God of War, and the companion and protector of all
warriors, also known as the Black Knight and his mighty steed
War Master.

 He rides into the middle of the blood soaked field and
dismounts. He is a very imposing figure. His very tall  and
heavily muscled body is encased in ebony armor. His ebony
helmet does not hide the flowing reddish blonde hair and
beard which appear almost as shimmering gold, nor does it
shield the steel blue eyes that seem to pierce all they fall
upon. In his left hand he carries a massive ebony tower
shield on which is emblazoned a fiery red rose. As he raises his
right arm, all see an arm and a magnificent ebony blade
which are extensions of each other. The fused arm and sword
are a result and symbol of the wounds suffered by this god
during titanic battles in the youth of this world.

 The ravens come to rest on his shoulders. And, as the point
of the ebony blade seemingly touches the sky,  lightning
flashes, thunder roars. Then total quiet descends and a
shudder rolls through both armies.

 The leaders of both armies approach Reymon Ebonarm and
kneel. In turn they tell their reasons for this war. Each asks
for the favor of the Black Knight for their cause. Reymon
Ebonarm listens, but there is no  acknowledgment that he has
chosen to favor one side or the other in this fight. However,
each of the leaders  has heard the other state his position.
And, each now knows that this war is baseless. They embrace
and  turn to their armies. They instruct their forces to bury
their dead, tend their wounded and return to their  homes.

 Reymon Ebonarm mounts his great golden stallion, War
Master, and again raises the ebony blade skyward  and
extends the huge rose emblazoned ebony shield to both armies.
A massive chorus of cheers rises from  the armies.  The ravens
again take to the air. Lightning and thunder follow him as he
rides into the sunset  followed by the two birds.

 The armies do as they have been bidden. They care for their
wounded and bury their dead. As they retreat  towards their
homes each warrior is sure that the great God Reymon Ebonarm,
the Black Knight, has responded to their individual prayers
for intervention. Each side has won, neither has lost.

 As the armies depart the field, the rivers begin to run
clear, and a single red rose begins to bloom near the  grave
of a fallen hero. 
