Title: Biography of Queen Barenziah, Vol. I
Author: Stem Gamboge, scribe
IsNaughty: False
Price: 406
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]Biography of

[/center]Queen Barenziah,

[/center]Vol. I



[/font=4]



[/center]      Late in the Second Era an heir, a girl child, Barenziah,
was born to the rulers of Mournhold in Morrowind. She was
reared in all the luxury and security befitting a royal
dark elf child until she reached five years of age. At that
time, His Excellency Tiber Septim demanded that the decadent
rulers of Morrowind yield to him and institute Imperial
reforms. Trusting to their vaunted magic, they impudently
refused and much of Morrowind was laid waste in the conflict
that ensued.

      The little Princess Barenziah and her nurse were found
among the wreckage. General Symmachus, himself a dark elf
and born in Mournhold, suggested to His Excellency that the
child might someday be valuable, and she was placed with a
loyal supporter who had recently retired from the Imperial
army. On retirement, Sven Advensen had been made Baron of
Blackmoor, a small town in central Skyrim. Baron Sven and
his wife reared her as their own daughter, saw to it that she
was educated appropriately, and more importantly, was
taught the Imperial virtues and piety. In short, she was
made fit to take her place as a member of the new ruling
class of Morrowind.

     The girl Barenziah grew in beauty, grace, and
intelligence. She was very sweet-tempered, a joy to her
adoptive parents and their five young sons, who loved her as
their elder sister. Other than her appearance, she differed
from young girls of her class only in that she had a strong
empathy for the woods and fields, and was wont to escape her
household duties to wander there.

     Barenziah was happy and content until her sixteenth year,
when a wicked orphan stable boy whom she had befriended out of
pity told her that he had overheard a conspiracy of her dear
guardian. Baron Sven, said the boy, had dealt with a
Redguard visitor to sell her as a concubine in Rihad, as no
Nord or Breton would marry her on account of her black skin,
and no dark elf would have her because of her foreign
upbringing.

     "Whatever shall I do?" the poor girl wept, trembling,
for she had been brought up in innocence and trust, and it
never occured to her that her friend would lie to her.

     The wicked boy, who was called Straw, said she must run
away if she valued her virtue, but he would come with her and
protect her. Sorrowfully, Barenziah agreed to this plan
and that very night, Barenziah disguised herself as a boy and
the pair escaped to the nearby city of Whiterun. After a few
days there, they managed to get places as guards in a
disreputable merchant caravan. The caravan was heading
east by side roads in a dishonest attempt to elude the
lawful tolls charged on the highway. Thus they eluded pursuit
until they reached the city of Rifton, where they ceased their
travels. They felt safe in Rifton, close as they were to the
Morrowind border so dark elves were commonly seen.

     The story of how Barenziah finally came to the throne of
Mournhold after this fitful start is told in Volume II of
the Biography of Queen Barenziah.




