Title: The Healer's Tale
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: True
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Healer's

[/center]Tale



[/font=4]

[/center]

    For over twenty years, I have been a healer at the Temple
of Stendarr. As the reader is doubtless aware, we are the
only temple in the Iliac Bay that offers wound healing and
illness curing for both the faithful and the heathen alike, for
Stendarr is the God of Mercy. I have faced people at their
most miserable and their most terrified. I have seen brave
knights weep and strong peasants scream. I like to think that
I've watched the masks drop from faces, and seen people as
they truly are.

    A healer's job, after all, is more than simply binding
wounds and stopping the flows of poison and disease. We are
counselors and comforters for those who have given up all
hope. Sometimes, it seems like our kind words and sympathy do
more for our patients than our spells.

    I am reminded of a very sick young man who came to the
temple, suffering from a variety of maladies. Once I had
given him an examination, I told him the results, careful
not to alarm him. I let him decide how he wanted to be told the
news.

    "I have some good news and some bad news, my child," I
said.

    "I better hear the bad news first," he said.

    "Well," I said, gripping his shoulder in case he should
faint. "The bad news is that, unless I am wrong, you will
sicken even more over the next day or two. And unless
Stendarr choses to be merciful to you, you will pass from
this existance. I am sorry, my child."

    As soft as the blow was, it stung nonetheless. The boy was,
after all, very young. He thought he had his whole life ahead
of him. Tears streaming down his face, he asked, "And what is
the good news?"

    I smiled: "When you came in, did you notice our
proselytizer? She was the enchanting, voluptuous blonde in
the antechamber by the foyer?"

    Color returned to the young man's face. He had noticed her
indeed. "Yes?"

    "I'm sleeping with her," I said.

    If more of the healers of Tamriel would consider their
patients' feelings, not just the quickest way to heal them up
and get them out, we would have a far, far healthier
society. I truly believe that. 
