Title: Brief History of the Empire, Part III
Author: Stronach
IsNaughty: False
Price: 352
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]A Brief History

[/center]of the Empire,

[/center]Part III



[/font=4]



[/center]     The first volume of this series tells in brief the story of
the succession of the first eight emperors of the Septim
Dynasty, from Tiber I to Kintyra II. The second volume
described the War of the Red Diamond and the six emperors
that followed its aftermath, Uriel III to Cassynder I. At
the end of that volume, I described how the Emperor
Cassynder's half-brother, Uriel IV assumed the throne of the
Empire of Tamriel.

     It will be recalled that Uriel IV was not a Septim by
birth. His mother, though she reigned as Emperess for many
years, was a Dark Elf married to a true Septim Emperor,
Pelagius III. His father was Katariah I's consort after
Pelagius' death and during her reign, a Breton nobleman
named Gallivere Lariat. Before taking the throne of Empire,
Cassynder I had ruled the kingdom of Wayrest, but poor
health had forced him to retire. Cassynder had no children,
so he legally adopted his half-brother Uriel and gave him the
kingdom. Seven years later, Cassynder inherited the Empire
at the death of his mother. Three years after that, Uriel
found himself the recipient of Cassynder's inheritance once
again.

    Uriel IV's reign was difficult and long one. Despite
being a legally adopted member of the Septim family, and
despite the Lariat family's high position -- indeed, they were
distant cousins of the Septims -- few of the Elder Council
could be persuaded to accept him fully as a blood relation
of Tiber. The Council had assumed much responsibility
during Katariah I's long reign and Cassynder I's short
reign, and a strong-willed alien monarch like Uriel IV found
it impossible to hold their unswerving fealty. Time and time
again, the Council and Emperor were at odds; and time and
time again, the Council won the battles. Since the days of
Pelagius II, the Elder Council had consisted of the
wealthiest men and women in the Empire, and the power they
wielded was ultimate.

    The Council's last victory over Uriel IV was posthumous.
Andorak, Uriel IV's son, was disinherited by vote of
Council, and a cousin more closely related to the original
Septim line was proclaimed Cephorus II in 3E 268. Cephorus
had been a Nordic king of  For the first nine years of
Cephorus II's reign, those loyal to Andorak battled the
Imperial forces. In an act that the sage Eraintine called
"Tiber Septim's heart beating no more," the Council granted
Andorak the High Rock kingdom of Shornhelm to end the war.
Andorak's descendants still rule that land.

    Of course, Cephorus II had foes that demanded more of his
attention than Andorak. "From out of a nightmare," in the
words of Eraintine, a man who called himself the Camoran
Usurper had led an army of daedra and undead warriors on a
rampage through Valenwood, conquering kingdom after
kingdom. None could resist his onslaughts, and as month
turned to bloody month in the year 3E 249, fewer even tried.
Cephorus II sent more and more mercenaries into Hammerfell
to stop the Usurper's northward march, but they were bribed,
turned into undead, or slaughtered.

    The story of the Camoran Usurper does deserve a book of its
own. I recommend the reader find Palaux Illthre's "The
Fall of the Usurper" for more detail. In short, the
destruction of the forces of the Usurper had little do with
efforts of the Emperor. The results was a great regional
victory and an increase in hostility toward the seemingly
inefficious Empire.

    Uriel V turned opinion back toward the potential power
of the Empire. Turning the attention of Tamriel away from
internal strife, Uriel V embarked on a series of invasions
beginning almost from the moment he took the throne in 3E
268. Uriel V conquered Roscrea in 271, Cathnoquey in 276,
Yneslea in 279, and Esroniet in 284. In 3E 288, he embarked
on his most ambitious enterprise, the invasion of the
continent kingdom of Akavir. This was ultimately a failure,
for two years later Uriel V was killed in Akavir on the
battlefield of Ionith. Nevertheless, Uriel V holds a
reputation second only to Tiber as the great warrior
emperor of Tamriel.

    The last four Emperors, beginning with Uriel V's infant
son, are described in the fourth and final volume of the
series.

 
