Title: The Real Barenziah, Part II
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: True
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Real

[/center]Barenziah

[/center]

[/center]Part II



[/font=4]

[/center]

[/center]

 Barenziah grew like a weed transplanted to a Skyrim garden,
a ward of Count Sven and his wife Lady Inga. Outwardly she
thrived but there was a cold and empty place within. 

 "I've raised her as my own daughter," Lady Inga was wont to
sigh when she sat gossiping with neighboring ladies come to
visit, "But she's a dark elf. What can you expect?"

 Barenziah was not meant to overhear these words. At least she
thought she was not. Her hearing was far keener than that of her
Nord hosts. Other, less desirable dark elf traits included
pilfering, lying and a little magic, just a small fire
spell and a little levitation. And, as she grew older, a
keen interest in boys and men, who could provide very
pleasant sensations and, to her astonishment, gifts as well.
Inga disapproved of this activity for reasons
incomprehensible to Barenziah, so she was careful to keep it
as secret as possible.

 "She's wonderful with the children," Inga added, meaning
her five sons, all younger than Barenziah. "She'd never see
them come to harm." 

 A tutor was hired when Jonny was six and Barenziah eight, and
she studied academic lessons along with him. She would have
liked arms training as well, but the very idea of a girl
training to arms scandalized Inga and Sven. Barenziah was
given a bow and allowed to practice target shooting with
the boys. She watched them at arms practice when she could,
practiced with them when no grown folk were about, and knew she was as good or better than they.

 "She's very proud, isn't she?" the neighbor ladies would
whisper, and Barenziah, pretending not to hear, would nod
in agreement. She could not help but feel superior to the
Count and Countess. There was something about them that
encouraged this disdain in her.

 She grew to learn that Sven and Inga were distant cousins of
the last rulers of Darkmoon, and then she began to
understand. They were poseurs, imposters, not rulers at
all. At least, they were not raised to rule. This thought made
her strangely furious at them, a good clean hatred detached
from resentment. Barenziah came to see them as disgusting and
corrupted insects who could be despised, but never feared.

 Once a month a courier came from the emperor, bringing a
small bag of gold for Inga and Sven and a large bag of
dried mushrooms from Morrowind for Barenziah's consumption.
She was always made presentable, as presentable as a skinny
dark elf girl could be made to look in Inga's eyes, and
summoned into the courier's presence for a brief interview.
The same courier seldom came twice, but all looked her over
rather as a farmer looks over a pig he's readying for market.
In the spring of her sixteenth year Barenziah thought the
courier looked as if she were at last ready for market.

 Upon reflection Barenziah decided that she did not wish to be
marketed. The stable-boy, Straw, a big blond boy, clumsy,
gentle, affectionate and rather simple, had been urging her
to run off with him for some weeks. Barenziah stole the bag of
gold the courier had left, took the mushrooms from the
storeroom, dressed herself as a boy in some of twelve year
old Timmy's casual clothing, and one fine spring night they
took the two best horses and rode hard through the night toward
Whiterun, the nearest city of any size, which was where Straw
wanted to go.

 But Morrowind also lay east and it drew Barenziah as a
lodestone does iron. In the morning they abandoned the horses
at Barenziah's insistence. She knew they would be missed and
tracked, and she hoped to throw pursuers off the trail. They
continued afoot until late afternoon, keeping to side
roads, then slept for several hours in an abandoned hut.
They went on at dusk and came to the Whiterun city gates just
before dawn.

 Barenziah had prepared a pass for Straw, stating an errand
to a temple in the city for a local village lord. She
herself sneaked over the wall with the help of her levitation
spell. She had reasoned that by now the gate guards would
have been alerted to look for a young dark elf and a Nord
boy traveling together, but country boys like Straw were
common enough. Alone and with papers, he would be unlikely
to draw their attention.

 Her simple plan went smoothly. She met Straw at the temple,
which was not far from the gate. She had been to Whiterun on a
few previous occasions. Straw, however, had never been more
than a few miles from Sven's estate, his birthplace.
Together they made their way to a run-down inn in the poor quarter of Whiterun. Gloved, cloaked and hooded
against the chill of the morning, her dark skin and red eyes were not apparent and no one paid any attention
to them. They entered the inn separately. Sven paid the host
for a single room, a large meal and a jug of ale, and
Barenziah sneaked in a few minutes later.

 They ate and drank together gleefully, celebrating their
escape, made love vigorously on the narrow bed, then fell
into an exhausted sleep.

 They stayed a week in Whiterun. Straw earned a bit of money
running errands and Barenziah robbed a few houses at night.
Barenziah continued to dress as a boy. She cut her hair short
and dyed her flame-red tresses jet black as a further
disguise, and kept out of sight as much as possible for there
were few dark elves in Whiterun. Then Straw got them places
as guards for a merchant caravan that was traveling east.
The sergeant looked her over dubiously.   "Heh," he chuckled,
"dark elf, ain'tcha? Like setting a wolf to guard the sheep,
that is. Still, I need arms, and we ain't going near enough
to Morrowind that ye can betray us to yer brothers. Our
home-grown bandits will as lief cut yer throat as mine."

 The sergeant gave Straw an appraising look, then abruptly
spun back to Barenziah, whipping out his short sword. But she
had her knife out and was in a defensive stance. Straw drew
his own knife and circled to the man's rear. The sergeant
dropped his blade and chuckled again, "Not bad, kids, not
bad. How are ye with that bow, dark elf?" Barenziah
demonstrated her prowess. "Aye, not bad, not bad a'tall.
And ye'll be keen of eye by night and of hearing at all
times. A trusty dark elf makes as good a fightin' man as any
could ask for. I know. I served under Symmachus himself
before I lost this arm and got invalided out of the
Emperor's forces."

 "We could betray them. I know folk who'd pay well," Straw
said later, as they bedded down for their last night in the
old inn, "Or rob them ourselves. They're very rich, those
merchants are, Berry."

 Barenziah chuckled, "What ever would we do with so much
money? And we need their protection for traveling quite as
much as they need ours."

 "We could buy a little farm and settle down."

 Peasant! Barenziah thought scornfully. Straw was a
peasant and had peasant dreams. But all she said was, "Not
here, Straw, we're too close to Darkmoor still. We'll have
more chances farther east."

 The caravan went only as far east as Sunguard. Tiber
Septim had done much in the way of building relatively safe
patrolled highways, but his tolls were steep, and this
particular caravan kept to the side roads as much as
possible to avoid them. This exposed them to the hazards of
robber barons, both human and orcish, and roving bands of
brigands of various races, but such were the perils of trade
and profit.

 They had two such encounters before reaching Sunguard, an
ambush which Barenziah's keen ears detected in plenty of time
for them to circle about and surprise the lurkers, and a
night attack by a mixed band of Khajiiti, humans and wood
elves. The latter were a skilled band and even Barenziah did
not hear them sneaking up in time to give much warning.

 The fighting was fierce. The attackers were driven off, but
two of the caravan's guards were killed, and Straw got a
nasty cut on his thigh before he and Barenziah killed his
Khajiit assailant.

 Barenziah rather enjoyed the life. The garrulous sergeant
had taken a liking to her, and she spent most of her evenings
sitting around a campfire listening to his tales of
campaigning in Morrowind with Tiber Septim and Symmachus.
Symmachus had been made a general after Mournhold fell, the
sergeant said. "He's a fine soldier, Symmachus is, but there
was more than soldiery involved in Morrowind, if you take
my drift. Well, you know about that, I expect."

 "I don't remember," Barenziah said, "I've mostly lived in
Skyrim. My mother married a Skyrim man. They're both dead,
though. What happened to the lord and lady of Mournhold?"

 The sergeant shrugged, "I never heard. Dead, I expect. All
Morrowind's under military rule now. It's pretty quiet.
Maybe too quiet. Like a calm before a storm. You going back
there?"

 "Maybe," Barenziah said. The truth was that she was drawn to
Morrowind like a magnet. Straw sensed it and was unhappy
about it. He was unhappy anyway, since they could not bed
together, as she was supposed to be a boy. Barenziah rather
missed it too, but not as much as Straw did, seemingly. The
sergeant wanted them to sign on for the return trip, but
gave them a bonus when they parted and letters of
recommendation. 

 Straw wanted to settle permanently near Sunguard, but
Barenziah insisted on continuing to travel east.

 "I'm the queen of Mournhold by rights," she said, unsure
whether it was true, or it was a story she had made up as a
child. "I want to go home. I need to go home."

 That at least was true. She had run out of mushrooms and was
very hungry for them. She found a few for sale in the
Sunguard marketplace, but they were not as good or
satisfying as the ones the courier had brought. After a few
weeks they managed to get places in a caravan heading east.
By early winter, they were in Riften, and near the Morrowind
border, but the weather had grown severe and they were told
no merchant caravans would set forth until mid-spring.

 Barenziah stood atop the city walls and stared across the
deep gorge that separated Riften from the snow-clad
mountain wall of Morrowind beyond.

 "Berry," Straw said gently, "Mournhold's a long way off
yet, nearly as far as we've come already, and the lands
between are wild, full of wolves and bandits and orcs and
still worse creatures. We'll have to wait for spring."

 "There's Silgrod Tower," Berry said, referring to the Dark
Elf town that had grown up around the ancient tower that
guarded the border between Skyrim and Morrowind.

 "The bridge guards won't let me across, Berry. They're crack
Imperial troops. They can't be bribed. If you go, you go
alone. I won't try to stop you. But what will you do?
Silgrod Tower is full of Imperial troops. Will you become
a washerwoman for them? A camp follower?"

 "No," Barenziah said thoughtfully. Actually the idea was
not entirely unappealing. She was sure that she could earn
a modest living by sleeping with the soldiers for money.
She'd had a few adventures of that sort as they crossed
Skyrim, when she'd dressed as a woman and slipped away from
Straw. She'd only been looking for a bit of variety. Straw
was sweet but dull. She'd been startled, but pleased when
the men she picked up offered her money afterwards.

 Straw had been unhappy about it though and would shout for
awhile, then sulk for days afterwards if he caught her at it.
He was very jealous. He'd even threatened to leave her.

 But the Imperial Guards were a tough and brutal lot by all
accounts and Barenziah had heard some very ugly stories
during her travels. The ugliest stories had come from the
lips of ex-veterans around the caravan campfire and were
proudly recounted. They'd been trying to shock her and
Straw, she realized, but she also realized that there was some
truth behind the wild tales. Straw hated that kind of talk
and hated having her hear it, but there was a part of him that
was fascinated by it.

 Barenziah had encouraged Straw to seek out other women, but
he said he didn't want anyone but her. She told him she didn't
feel that way, but she did like him better than anyone else.

 "Then why do you go with other men?"

 "I don't know, dear."

 Straw sighed. "They say dark elf women are like that."

 Barenziah smiled and shrugged. "I know. I guess that's all
the explanation there is."





 
