Title: The Real Barenziah, Part IV
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: True
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Real

[/center]Barenziah

[/center]Part IV



[/font=4]



[/center] Barenziah fidgeted impatiently while Therris sorted through
the papers in the desk. He was being meticulous and
methodical, careful to replace everything just as he'd
found it. They'd entered a nobleman's house, leaving Straw
outside as a lookout. Therris had said it was a simple job
but very secret. He hadn't even wanted to bring any other
Guild members along. He said he knew he could trust Berry and
Straw.

 "Tell me what you're looking for and I'll find it," Berry
whispered. Therris' night sight wasn't as good as hers and he
didn't want to make a light. Berry had never been in such a
luxurious place. She gazed around with wonder as they'd made
their way through the huge echoing downstairs rooms, but
Therris didn't seem interested in anything but the desk in the
small book-lined study on the upper floor.

 "Ssss't," he hissed angrily.

 "Someone's coming!" Berry said, a moment before the door
opened and two dark figures appeared. Therris gave her a
violent shove toward them and sprang away toward the window.
Barenziah's muscles went rigid; she couldn't move or even
speak. She watched helplessly as a dark figure leaped after
Therris. There were two quick, silent blue flares of light,
then Therris folded in a still heap. Outside the study the
house had come alive with footsteps and voices calling and
the clank of armor.

 The big man, a dark elf, half lifted, half dragged Therris
to the door and thrust him into waiting arms. A jerk of the
elf's head sent his robed companion after him. The elf came
over to inspect Barenziah, who was once again able to move,
although her head throbbed maddeningly when she did so.

 "Open your shirt, Barenziah," the elf said.

 Barenziah gaped at him and clutched it closed.

 "You are a girl, aren't you, Berry?" he said softly. "You
should have stopped dressing as a boy a few months ago, you
know. You were only drawing attention to yourself. And
calling yourself Berry! Is your friend Straw too stupid to
remember anything else?"

 "It's a common elf name," Barenziah defended herself.

 The man shook his head sadly. "Not among dark elves it isn't,
my dear, but you really don't know much about dark elves,
do you? I regret that, but it couldn't be helped. No
matter. I'll remedy it."

 "Who are you?" Barenziah demanded.

 "So much for fame," the man shrugged, smiling wryly. "I am
Symmachus, my lady, and it's a merry chase you've led me,
although I'd guessed you'd head for Morrowind. You had a bit
of luck. A body was found in Whiterun that was thought to be
Straw's so we stopped looking for the pair. That was
careless of me, yet I'd not have thought you'd have stayed
together this long."

 "Where is he? Is he all right?"

 "Oh, he's fine for now. In custody, of course. You -- care
for him, then?" he stared at her with curiosity out of red eyes
that were so strange to her, except in her own seldom-seen
image.

 "He's my friend," Barenziah said. The words came in a tone
that sounded dull and hopeless in her own ears. Symmachus! A
general in the Imperial Army, said to have the friendship
and the ear of Tiber Septim himself. 

 "Ai. You seem to have several unsuitable friends, if you'll
forgive my saying so, my lady." As they talked the bustle
and flurry in the house had died away, although she could
hear people, presumably the residents, whispering together
not far off. The tall elf seated himself on a corner of the
desk. He seemed quite relaxed and prepared to stay awhile. 

 Several? "W-what's going to happen to them? To me?"

 "Ah. As you know this house belongs to the commander of the
Imperial troops in this area." Barenziah gasped and
Symmachus looked up sharply. "You didn't know? You are
rash, even for seventeen. You must always know what it is
you do."

 "B-but the G-guild w-wouldn't -- " Barenziah was trembling.
The Thieves' Guild would never have attempted a mission that
involved Imperial policies. No one dared oppose Tiber
Septim, at least no one she knew of. 

 "I daresay. It's unlikely that Therris had Guild approval
for this job. I wonder--" Symmachus examined the desk
carefully, pulling out its drawers. He selected one, placed
its contents on the desk top and removed the false bottom.
There was a folded sheet of paper inside. It seemed to be a
map of some sort. Barenziah edged closer to see it.
Symmachus held it away from her, laughing. "Rash indeed!"
He glanced it over, then folded and replaced it.

 "You advised me to seek knowledge."

 "So I did, so I did." Suddenly he seemed to be in high good
humor. "We must be going, my dear lady."

 He shepherded her to the door, down the stairs and out into the
night air. No one was about. Barenziah's eyes darted to the
shadows. She wondered if she could outrun him, or elude him
somehow.

 "You're not thinking of attempting to escape, are you?
Don't you want to hear what my plans for you are first?" He
sounded a bit hurt.

 "Yes."

 "Perhaps you'd rather hear about your friends first."

 "No." He looked pleased. It was the answer he wanted, but it
was also the truth. While Barenziah was concerned for her
friends, especially Straw, she was far more concerned for
herself.

 "You will take your rightful place as Queen of
Mournhold."

 Her heart leapt. It was really true then! 

 Symamchus explained that this had been his, and Tiber
Septim's plan for her all along. That Mournhold, which had
been under military rule for the dozen years since she had
left was to be returned, gradually, to civilian
government, under Imperial guidance, of course, and as a
part of the Imperial Province of Morrowind.

 "But why was I sent to Darkmoor."

 "For safekeeping. Why did you run away?"

 Barenziah shrugged. "I saw no reason to stay. I should have
been told."

 "You would have been by now. I had in fact sent for you to
be removed to Imperial City to spend some time as a part of
the Emperor's household. As for your destiny, it should have
been obvious to you. Tiber Septim does not keep those he has
no use for, and what else could you be that is of use to
him?"

 "I know nothing of him or you."

 "Then know this: Tiber Septim rewards friend and foe alike
according to their deserts."

 Barenziah chewed on that for a few moments. "Straw has
deserved well of me and has never done anyone any harm. He is
not a member of the Thieves' Guild. He came along to protect
me. He earns our keep by running errands, and--"

 Symmachus waved her to silence. "I know all about Straw,"
he said, "and about Therris. So? What would you?"

 "Straw wants a little farm. If I'm to be rich, then I would
give that to him."

 "Very well. He shall have it. And Therris?"

 "He betrayed me," Barenziah said in a low voice. Therris
should have told her the risks the job entailed. Further, he'd
pushed her right into their foes' arms in an attempt to save
himself.

 "Yes. And?"

 "Well, he should be made to suffer for it, shouldn't he?"

 "That seems reasonable. What form should the suffering
take?"

 Barenziah balled her hands into fists. She'd like to beat and
claw at the Khajiit herself, but that didn't seem very
queenly. "A whipping. Would twenty stripes be too many do
you think? I don't want to do him any permanent injury."

 "I shall arrange it."

 Barenziah spent two days in Symmachus' apartment during
which she was kept very busy. There was a dark elf woman named
Drelliane who saw to their needs, although she did not seem to
be exactly a servant as she took her meals with them. Nor was
she his wife. Drelliane seemed amused when Barenziah asked her
about that. She simply said she was in Symmachus' employ and
did whatever he asked of her. 

 With Drelliane's assistance several fine gowns and pairs of
shoes were ordered for her, plus a riding habit and boots,
along with other small necessities. Barenziah was given a
room to herself. Symmachus was out a great deal. She saw him
at most meals, but he said little about himself or what he
had been doing, although he was cordial and polite, was
quite willing to converse on most subjects, and seemed
interested in anything she had to say. Drelliane was much the
same. Barenziah found them pleasant enough, but hard to get
to know, as Katisha would have put it. She felt an odd
disappointment. These were the first dark elves with whom
she'd associated closely. She had expected to feel
comfortable with them, to feel, at last, that this was where
she belonged. Instead she found herself yearning for her
Nord friends, Katisha and Straw. When Symmachus told her
they were to set out for Imperial City on the morrow, she
asked if she could say goodbye to her friends.

 "Katisha?" he asked. "Well enough. I suppose I owe her
something. She it was who led me to you by telling me of a
lonely dark elf girl named Berry who need elven friends --
and sometimes dressed as a boy. She has no association with
the Thieves' Guild. And no one associated with the Thieves'
Guild seems to know your true identity, save Therris. That is
well. I prefer that your former Guild membership not be
made public knowledge. You will speak of it to no one. It
does not become an Imperial queen."

 "No one knows but Straw and Therris. They won't tell
anyone."

 "No, they won't." He didn't know that Katisha knew then! 

 Straw came to their apartment the morning of their
departure, and they were left alone in the parlor, although
Barenziah knew that the other elves were well within hearing.
Straw looked drawn and pale. They hugged one another
silently for a few minutes. Straw's shoulders were shaking and
tears were rolling down his cheeks, but he said nothing.

 Barenziah tried a smile. "So we both get what we want. I'm
to be Queen of Mournhold and you'll be king of your own
farm. I'll write you. You must find a scribe so you can
write me, too." Straw shook his head sadly, and when Barenziah
persisted, he opened his mouth and pointed inside, making an
inarticulate noise. His tongue was gone! Barenziah
collapsed onto a chair and wept noisily. 

 "Why?" she demanded of Symmachus, when Straw had been
ushered away. "Why?"

 Symmachus shrugged. "He knows too much of you. He could be
dangerous. At least he's alive, and he won't need his tongue
to farm."

 "I hate you!" Barenziah screamed at him, then leaned over
and vomited on the floor. She continued to revile him
between intermittent bouts of nausea. He listened stolidly
for some time, while Drelliane cleaned up after her.
Finally, he told her to cease or he would gag her for the
journey.

 They stopped at Katisha's house. Symmachus and Drelliane
didn't dismount. All seemed normal but Barenziah was
frightened as she knocked on the door. Katisha answered her
knock. She'd obviously been weeping, but she embraced
Barenziah.

 "Why are you crying?" Barenziah asked.

 "For Therris, of course. You haven't heard? He's dead. He was
caught stealing from the commandant's house. Poor fellow,
but it was so foolish of him. Oh, Barenziah, he was drawn and
quartered this very dawn by the commandant's order. I went;
he asked for me. It was terrible; he suffered so before he
died. I'll never forget it. I looked for you and Straw but
no one knew where you'd got to. That's Symmachus you're with,
isn't it? You know, the moment I saw him, I thought, this is the
one for Barenziah! I told him about you, you know."

 "Yes," Barenziah said. "Katisha, I love you, but please
don't ever tell anyone else anything about me. Ever. Swear
you won't. Especially not Symmachus. And look after poor
Straw for me." Katisha promised, puzzled but willing.
"Berry, it wasn't somehow because of me that Therris was
caught? I never said anything about Therris to Symmachus."

 Barenziah assured her that it wasn't, that an informer had
told of the Imperial Guard of Therris' plans, which was
probably a lie, but Katisha badly needed some kind of
comfort. 

 "Oh, I'm glad of that, if I can be glad of anything just
now. I'd hate to think-- but how could I have known? And
Symmachus is very handsome, don't you think? And charming."

 "I don't know," Barenziah said. "I haven't really thought
about it. There hasn't been time." She explained about being
Queen of Mournhold and going to live in Imperial City for
awhile first. "He was looking for me. I don't think he thinks
of me as a woman at all. He said I didn't look like a boy,
though," she added in the face of Katisha's incredulity. She
knew that Barenziah evaluated every male she saw in terms of
sexual desirability. "I suppose it's the shock of finding
out that I really am a queen," she added, and Katisha agreed
that that must be something of a shock, although one there was
no likelihood of her experiencing first hand.

 Their party left Rifton by the great south gate. Once
through Symmachus tapped her shoulder and pointed back to
the gate. "I thought you might want to say good-bye to
Therris, too," he said. Barenziah stared briefly but
steadily at the head impaled on a spike above the gate. The birds
were at it, but the face was still recognizable.

 "I think he will not hear me," she said. "Let's be on our
way, shall we?"

 Symmachus was clearly disappointed by her lack of
reaction. "You heard of this from Katisha?"

 "Of course. She attended the execution." Barenziah said
casually. If he didn't know already, he'd find out soon
enough; she was sure of that. 

 "Did she know Therris belonged to the Guild?"

 "Everyone knew that. It's only lower ranking members like me
who are supposed to keep their membership secret. The ranking
officers are well known. But you know all that, don't
you?" She smiled archly at him.

 "So you told her who you were and whence you'd come, but not
about the Guild."

 "The Guild membership was not my secret to tell. The other
was. There is a difference. Besides, Katisha is a very honest
person. Had I told her it would have lessened me in her eyes.
She was always after Therris to take up a more honest line of
work. I value her good opinion. She also thought I'd be
happier if I'd settle down with just one man friend, one of
my own race. You, in fact. Isn't it odd how wishes come true
sometimes, but not the way you want them to?"

 "Yes. Very odd." Something about the way he said it made her
think that she herself was one of his wishes that had come true
in a way that wasn't altogether to his liking.









 
