Title: The Sage
Author: Aegrothius Goth
IsNaughty: False
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Sage



[/font=4]

[/center]

[/center] Crackle, snap, hiss ... Flicker, bright, dim ... The fire in
the hearth provides light and heat. Neither seem to affect the
old man. His reclining figure stares into the flames and
flames reflect back from his deep dark  eyes. Indigo blue
robes reflect and yet absorb the firelight and highlights of
golden threads twinkle as the flames flicker. His beard and
hair are long and snowy white; in the firelight they almost
appear to be ethereal like that of a godling. At his side is a
tall pointed hat which is the same color as his robe and also
twinkles with highlights of gold. The face is lined with age,
yet almost appears youthful; wisdom and intellect exude
from his personage. This is the Sage who is known in all of
Tamriel as the champion and counselor to all users of
magic. His thoughts wander, and he remembers ...

 ...

 Gyron Vardengroet was born to a poor and humble Breton
family in the village of Moonguard. The only  child of
Frieda and Horstle Vardengroet entered life during a rare
eclipse of Tamriel's moons. It was soon  apparent that he
was unusually gifted in the magical arts. He was found
levitating the family dog when he was only a year old. Most
Bretons have a great talent for magic, but as he grew Gyron
displayed a talent  far greater than that of his peers. The
village wizard began to take an interest in young Gyron and
soon took  him under his wing. In spite of the young man's
proclivities for being rowdy, the old Wizard Grungdingler 
liked him and worked hard to teach him the magical arts to the
extent of his own skills.

 Finally the day came when Grungdingler could teach Gyron
no more. The young mage had surpassed his  master, and he was
somewhat unsettled with the apprentice mage's questions
about life, death and immortality. Grundingler called
Gyron to him and gave him a letter addressed to Morkledder,
the Guildmagister of the Mages Guild in Shornhelm. The young
mage told his parents of his fortune, packed his meager
belongings, and set out for the journey to Shornhelm. After
many months of travel through the foothills of the
Kurallian Mountains, Gyron arrived at the gates to the great
City-State of Shornhelm high in the mountainous terrain of
High Rock.

 After the life of a quiet Breton village, Shornhelm was a
wonder to Gyron. He explored the city from one end to the
other, and eventually found the Mages Guild. Presenting
Grungdingler's letter to Morkledder, Gyron was received
warmly. Morkledder explained to Gyron that he would need
to be tested before any commitment to further training
could be made. After a night of rest and meditation, Gyron
was shown into the main hall of the Mages Guild which was now
filled with magic users of all kinds. It was very quiet. The
young mage felt as if his heart was in his throat as he
approached the Council of Three, the leaders of the mages in
this City-State. Morkledder rose and explained to Gyron the
various tests he would be subjected to to prove his worth as
a mage. The youth then turned and left the Council Chamber,
the eyes of the many mages on him, and went forth to complete
the tasks that had been defined for him. 

 Returning to Shornhelm several years later, Gyron was
admitted to the Mages Guild and shown to the  Council Chamber
where he was met by Morkledder. The ancient mage reviewed the
journal entries, the  artifacts gathered, and most
especially the spellbook entries presented to him by Gyron.
An expression of  amazement spread across the old wizard's
face; there had never been a novice to accomplish what Gyron
had  during the testing. Morkledder then called a full
session of the Guild presenting Gyron as a full Wizard. 

 Gyron remained with Morkledder for several years and
studied hard. In private session several years after the
testing, Morkledder admitted to Gyron that the Guild at
Shornhelm could teach him no more and that he should seek
further enlightenment at the Crystal Tower on Sumurset
Isle.

 After packing his possessions once again, Gyron set off on
another long journey. He arrived at the Crystal Tower
several years later after having traversed the province
of Hammerfell where he had many adventures, met many other mages and shared his experiences and knowledge
with them. He heard stories of wonderful plants that when
combined with other elements could restore life to those
dead, prolong life to those yet living, and in the proper
combination bestow immortality on the user. Gyron was
always quick to advise and guide mages who were less
experienced than himself. He loved being able to help. He
made many friends and stories began to spread across  the
land about this exceptional user of magic.

 When he entered the Crystal Tower, he was greeted by several
mages all clamoring for his attention. His  reputation had
preceded him. However, the crowd hushed and parted at the
arrival of a very imposing figure dressed all in indigo
blue robes trimmed in gold, wearing a high pointed hat and
carrying the most beautifully carved staff Gyron had ever
seen. The Elder of the Council of Wizards, Esthlainder,
looked closely at the young wizard, nodded and turned to
walk back into the tower. Without delay, Gyron followed him.
The audience that followed stunned the young mage.

 Esthlainder explained to him that Gyron's coming had been
foretold for many years, and he had been expected. The mages
had been told by the Gods that one of their own would come
along to provide guidance, knowledge and aid. Gyron was
that promised champion and leader. Gyron was confused and
uncertain. How could he be such an extraordinary person?
What must he do to fulfill his destiny? Many questions
spilled from him to which Esthlainder could not provide the
answers. The Elder suggested that Gyron stay with them in the
Crystal Tower for a while and study. This he did.

 The day finally came when The Elder admitted to Gyron that
the Crystal Tower could no longer provide anything new and
that he needed to travel the lands of Tamriel and seek the
wisdom and knowledge. The Elder sighed and told Gyron how
sad he was that the Crystal Tower was losing him, but that his
destiny must be fulfilled. With this, the Elder presented
Gyron with a package wrapped in the same beautiful indigo
blue as the Elder's Robes. Gyron was told to take the package
with him but open it only when he was at least a day's travel
from the Crystal Tower.

 After a long day's walk, Gyron set up camp in a beautiful
glade next to a brook of crystal clear water. Finally, he
thought, I can open the Elder's package. As he untied the
golden cord that had bound the package, he found that the
wrapping was not wrapping at all but an exquisitely
tailored robe identical to the one worn by the Elder. As he
opened the robe, a high pointed wizard's hat popped out of
the package, and with a "whoosh" and "pop," the same
intricately carved staff that the Elder had carried
appeared. A note from the Elder advised that the garments
were indestructible and that the staff had many magical
properties for Gyron to discover. It went on further to
explain that from this day forward Gyron would be known as
The Sage.

 Tired from his walking and with an inner glow of
accomplishment, The Sage settled down for the first night
of his long pilgrimage across the lands.

 After many months of further travels and adventures, The 
Sage returned to Moonguard and was warmly welcomed by the
villagers and most especially by his parents, Frieda and
Horstle. News of his coming had preceded him and the whole
village had worked hard to build and furnish a cottage for the mage in the pleasant forest just outside the town.
After a festive banquet that evening, Gyron retired to his
new home.

 The Sage settled into his life outside Moonguard. He received
many visitors who have traveled from near and far to seek his
guidance, help, and training. The years passed. It was not
long before first Horstle and then Frieda died. The Sage was
devastated by his loss. In his grief he swore to dedicate the
rest of his life to defeating death so that grief like his
could be avoided by others.

 He returned to the Great Library at the Crystal Tower and
researched the many flowers, herbs and plants that he had
heard about and seen during his travels. In his cottage, he
labored tirelessly over the spellbooks, vials and
collection of flora from all over the lands. He tested the
potions on himself. The years went by, but The Sage seemed
not to age anymore. At some point he had found the right
combination in his experiments, but could not determine
which combination it had been as the change had been most
subtle. He had secured a life without end. And the years
continued to pass. 

 Mages came to him for help which he freely gave. The Sage
settled into his life of advising and guiding and  the years
continued to pass. Unfortunately, his fame became so great
that the call for his help was unmanageable. He reluctantly
packed his possessions for the last time, and moved far into
the Kurallian Mountains and built a magical fortress. Only
the most worthy magic user could gain access and help from
The Sage. 

 However, following his heart, even today The Sage often
leaves his mountain abode and travels the land helping
young mages gain experience and to grow.

 ...

 Snap, crackle ... The firelight flickers... The old mage
stirs as the memories fade and flicker like the firelight.
Bang, bang, bang... echoes from the pounding knocker on the
great oaken doors of the fortress... The Sage rises and heads
for the doors knowing that yet another mage in need has found
him and is worthy of help.  
