Title: The Real Barenziah, Part III
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: True
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Real

[/center]Barenziah

[/center]

[/center]Part III



[/font=4]

[/center]

[/center]

 They settled into Rifton for the winter, taking a cheap room
in the slums. Barenziah joined the Thieves' Guild, knowing
there would be trouble if she were caught free-lancing. One
day in the barroom she caught the eye of a known member of the
guild, a bold young Khajiit named Therris. She offered to
bed with him if he would sponsor her for membership. He looked
her over, grinning, and agreed, but said she'd still have to
pass a test. 

 "What sort of test?"

 "Ah," Therris said. "Payment first, sweet thing." He put an
arm around her, leaned over and kissed her, thrusting his
tongue deep into her mouth and his free hand into her shirt.

 "Nice," he said presently, withdrawing his tongue, but not
his hand. His other hand slid down inside her waistband and
fondled her buttocks.

 "Let's go upstairs. We can use my room," Barenziah felt
both embarassed and excited by his boldness.

 Therris grinned insolently. "Why bother? You want me,
don't you? I'll bet you'd pay me, wouldn't you?"

 "No," Barenziah said. She did want him, but not that badly.

 "No? Well, a bargain's a bargain and Therris keeps his
word. But here. Now." He hiked her skirt up and pulled her
onto his lap so she sat astride, facing him. He opened her
shirt and pulled it down on her shoulders so that her breasts
were exposed.

 "Nice pair, kid." She was facing the wall but she could
feel the stares of the other patrons. A hush had fallen over
the place. Even the bard had stilled. She felt both nausea
and a hot burning desire. Her hands released his turgid penis
and then it was inside her and she was screaming in both pain
and ecstasy. Then everything went black.

 When she came to herself again she was sitting beside Therris,
who was buttoning her shirt.

 "That hurt!" she said indignantly.

 "Always does, kid. Didn't anyone ever tell you about
Khajiit men? It hurts good though, now doesn't it?"

 Barenziah scowled at him. She was still smarting. His penis
had tiny little barbs on it.

 "Well, the deal's off, if you like," he shrugged.

 "No, I didn't say that. Only I prefer privacy, and I want
to wait awhile, like a day or so before the next time."

 Therris laughed. "You're OK, kid."

 Straw was going to kill her, and maybe Therris too. What in
Tamriel had possessed her to do such a thing? She cast an
anxious look around the room, but the other patrons had lost
interest and gone back to their own business. She did not
recognize any of them; this wasn't the inn where she lived.
With luck it'd be awhile, or never, before Straw found out.
But Therris was by far the most exciting and attractive man
she'd yet met.

 He not only told her about the skills needed to be a member of
the Thieves' Guild, but trained her in them himself or
introduced her to people who could teach her. Among these was
a Nord woman who knew something about magic. Katisha was
plump and matronly. She was married to a smith, had two teen
aged children and was perfectly ordinary and respectable
except that she was very fond of cats, had a gift for
certain kinds of magic, and cultivated rather odd friends.

 She taught Barenziah an Invisibility spell and trained her
in other forms of stealth and disguise. Katisha mingled
magical and non-magical talents freely, using one to
enhance the other. She was not a member of the Thieves' Guild
but was fond of Therris in a motherly sort of fashion.
Barenziah warmed to her as she never had to any woman, and
over the next few weeks she told Katisha all about herself.
She brought Straw there, too. Straw approved of Katisha
but not of Therris. Therris found Straw amusing and
suggested to Barenziah that they arrange what he called a
threesome.

 "Indeed not," Barenziah said, grateful that Therris had
broached the subject in private. "He wouldn't like it. I
wouldn't like it!"

 Therris smiled his charming triangular cat-smile and
sprawled lazily back in his chair, curling his tail. "You
might both be surprised. Pairing is so boring. Well, would
you mind if I brought a friend?"

 "Yes. If you're bored with me you and your friend can find
someone else." She was a member of the Thieves' Guild now.
She found Therris useful but not essential. Maybe she was a
bit bored with him, too. 

 She talked to Katisha about her men problems. Katisha shook
her head and told her she was looking for love, not sex, that
she'd know the right man when she found him, and that neither
Straw nor Therris was the right one for her.

 Barenziah cocked her head to one side quizzically. "They say
dark elf women are pro- pro- something. Prostitutes?"

 "You mean promiscuous, although some do become
prostitutes, I suppose. Elf women are promiscuous when
they're young. You'll outgrow it. Perhaps you're beginning
to already," Katisha said hopefully. "You ought to meet
some nice elven boys, though. If you keep on keeping company
with Khajiits and humans you'll find yourself pregnant
soon."

 Barenziah smiled involuntarily at the thought. "I'd like
that. But it would be inconvenient, wouldn't it?  Babies
are a lot of trouble, and I don't even have a home yet."

 "How old are you? Seventeen? Well, you've a year or two
yet before you'll be fertile, unless you're very unlucky.
Elves don't have children readily with other elves even after
that, so you'll be all right if you stick with them."

 "Straw wants to buy a farm and marry me."

 "Is that what you want?"

 "No. Not yet. Maybe some day, if I can't be a queen."

 "I think Straw will be a very old man before "some day"
comes, Berry. Elves live a very long time." Katisha's face
briefly wore the wistful look humans got when contemplating
the thousand year life span that elves were entitled to by
nature. True, few ever actually lived that long, as
disease and violence took a toll, but they could.

 "I like old men, too," Berry said. 
