Title: Fragment: On Artaeum
Author: Taurce Anselma
IsNaughty: False
Price: 676
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]Fragment:

[/center]On Artaeum



[/font=4]

 by Taurce il-Anselma, 3E 400



[/center]The Isle of Artaeum (ar-TAY-um)

 Artaeum is the third largest island in the Sumurset
archipelago, located south of the Moridunon village of Potansa and west of the mainland village of
Runcibae. It is best known for being the home to the Psijic
Order, perhaps the oldest monastic group in Tamriel.

 The earliest written record of Psijics is from the twentieth
year of the first era and tells the tale of the author, the renowned Breton sage Voernet, travelling
to the Isle of Artaeum to meet with the Rite Master of the
Psijics, Iachesis. Even then, the Psijics were the counselors
of kings and proponents of the "Elder Way," taught to them
by the original people of Tamriel. The Elder Way is a
philosophy of  meditation and study said to bind the forces
of nature to the individual will. It differs from magicka in
origin, but the effects are much the same.

 That being said, it is perhaps more than coincidence that the
Isle of Artaeum literally vanished from the shores of
Sumurset at the beginning of the second era at about the time
of the founding of the Mages Guild of Tamriel. Various
historians and scholars have published theories about this,
but perhaps none but Iachesis and his own could shed light on
this.

 Five hundred years passed and Artaeum returned. The Psijics
on the Isle consisted of persons, mostly elves, who had
disappeared and were presumed dead over the second
era.
They could not or would not offer an explanation for
Artaeum's wherebouts during that time or the fate of Iachesis
and the original council of Artaeum.

 Currently, the Psijics are led by the Lore Master Celarus
who has presided over the Council of Artaeum for the last
two hundred and fifty years. The Council's influence in
world politics is tidal: the kings of Sumurset,
particularly those of Moridunon, have often sought the
Psijics' opinion; Uriel V was much influenced by the Council
in the early, most glorious part of his reign, before his
disasterous attack on Akavir; it has even been suggested that
the fleet of King Orghum of Pyandonea was destroyed by a
joint effort of Emperor Antiochus and the Psijic Order. The
last four emperors, Uriel VI, Morihatha, Pelagius IV, and
Uriel VII, have been suspicious of the Psijics, even enough
to refuse ambassadors for the Isle of Artaeum in the
Imperial City.

 The Isle of Artaeum is difficult to chart geographically.
It is said that parts of it exist simultaneously in multiple
dimensions and continuously shift either at random or by
decree of Council. Visitors to the island are so rare to be
almost unheard of. Anyone desirous of a meeting with a Psijic
may find contacts in Potansa and Runcibae as well as many
of the kingdoms of Sumurset.

 Were it more accessible, Artaeum would be a favored
destination for travellers. I have been to the Isle once
and still dream of the idylic orchards and pastures, the
still and silent lagoons, the misty woodlands, and the
unique Psijic architecture that seems to be as natural but
wondrous as the surroundings. The Ceporah Tower in
particular I would study, for it is a ruin from a
civilization that predates the High Elves by several hundred
years and is still used in certain rites by the Psijics.

 Perhaps one day I might return.

 Note: The author is currently on the Isle of Artaeum by
gracious consent of Master Sargenius of the Council of
Artaeum. 





 
