Title: Oelander's Hammer
Author: Krowle
IsNaughty: False
Price: 424
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]Oelander's Hammer:

[/center]

[/center]An Instructive Tale

[/center]For Children



[/font=4]



 The two children, Froedwig and his younger sister
Silvanda, had been exploring all morning. The noon sun was
directly overhead and everything was warm and bright. The
had left their Redguard village, Granitsta, early that
morning for a day in the wildnerness, a picnic, and with a
stern warning from their father to be home before dark. They
crossed a huge field that was bare save a single rose bush
right in the middle.

 The little girl asked Froedwig about it.

 "Well," he said, "according to father a great battle was
fought in this place many years ago. The battle was visited
by the God of all warriors, Reymon Ebonarm, who caused the
leaders to end the battle and return to their homes. It is
said that the rose bush grows where he stood that day."

 "Oh, how exciting," giggled Silvanda.

 The children continued their trek approaching some woods. As
they entered the forest the air became very cool and a deep
quiet seemed to envelope them. 

 "What is that?"

 Silvanda pointed to a large hole in the ground from which
protruded a long, thick pole. Around the hole thorny
plants had grown into an impenetrable wall.

 "I don't know," said Froedwig, "but let's see if we can get
a closer look."

 "Stop!"

 They did.

 Looking beyond the hole, the children saw an elderly
Redguard of many years. His gray beard, scraggly hair and
stooped shoulders certainly did not support the
authoritarian command he gave. But the children stopped
just the same as he approached.

 "Who are you?" stammered Froedwig as Silvanda carefully
tucked herself behind her brother's back.

 "My name is Hoennig Groevinger, and I live in these woods."

 "Why can't we examine yon hole, Master Groevinger?" asked
Froedwig.

 "Because, my dear children, it and what it holds are
cursed. Now just wh-h-h-o are you?" he stuttered, mimicing
Froedwig.

 Finally gaining his composure, Froedwig said, "I am
Froedwig-aj- Murr of the village Granitsta. This is my sister
Silvanda. We are on an outing. Can you tell us about this
mysterious hole?"

 "Well," said the old man as he slowly settled to the
ground, "Why don't you sit here with me for a while and I
will tell you about Oelander's Hammer. That's the handle of
the fabled weapon sticking out from yonder chasm."

 With this the children also settled into sitting positions
in front of the old Redguard ranger.

 Groevinger began, "Many year's ago there was a huge battle
fought in this very field ..."

 "Oh, yes, I know," said Silvanda, interrupting the old
man. "It was ended by the Warrior God Reymon Ebonarm, and
the magic rose bush grows where he stood that day..." she
continued breathlessly.

 The old man sternly cleared his throat causing the little
girl to again shrink behind her brother.

 "Now, if I may continue without interruption... On the day
that battle ended, a young Redguard soldier stopped in this
spot as he was leaving to go to his home. He carried the
equipment he had used on the field which included a
marvelously fashioned war hammer that had been given to him
by his father. The weapon  was beautifully made and unknown
to the young warrior carried an enchantment that had
protected him through the vicious battle just ended."

 "The young man, Oelander by name, rested by this very tree.
Suddenly he was confronted by a wizard dressed all in black
from head to toe. Without so much as a how-do-you-do, the
wizard demanded that Oelander give him his hammer. Still
flushed from the battle, the young man just looked at the dark
man and  laughed. The wizard shaking with rage raised his hands
to cast a horrible spell against the soldier. However, the
young man was quicker. The huge war hammer whistled through
the air smiting the wizard a mortal blow just as the spell
left his fingers. There was a loud explosion."

 The children stared at the old man. He surpressed a grin and
continued.

 "Clouds of dusk and smoke covered the forest clearing, and
when the air settled, yon hole was there with the hammer's
handle protruding from it. Oelander and the wizard had
vanished! The thorny vines you see grew up immediately
around the hole, and to this day no one has been able to
approach it close enough to remove that marvelous weapon.
Many have tried and all have failed. It is said that only
someone of tremendous merit can take it."

 All of a sudden, both children in unison stood and shouted,
"Oh, look how the day has gone. We must go. If we are late
getting home, our father will be most unhappy with us."

 As they turned to leave, Froedwig said to the old man,
"Thank you, Master Groevinger, for telling us of
Oelander's Hammer. You know, I may just come back one day and
try to retrieve it!"

 As they disappeared from his view, the old man said to
himself, "Ah, yes, Master Froedrig aj-Murr, you just  might
do that."  
