Title: The Real Barenziah, Part V
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: False
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Real

[/center]Barenziah

[/center]Part V



[/font=4]



[/center]

 Barenziah felt the weight of sorrow for several days, but
by the third day out her spirits had begun to rise a bit. She
found that she enjoyed being on the road again, although she
missed Straw's companionship more than she would have
thought. They were escorted by a troop of Redguard knights,
with whom she felt comfortable, although these were much more
disciplined than the guards of the merchant caravans. They
were cordial but respectful towards her despite her
attempts to flirt with the men.

 Symmachus scolded her privately, saying a queen must
maintain a royal dignity at all times.

 "You mean I'm never to have any fun?"

 "Not with such as these. They are beneath you. Graciousness is
to be desired in those in authority. Familiarity is not. You
will remain chaste and modest while you are in Imperial
City."

 Barenziah screwed up her face. "I might as well be back in
Black Moor. Elves are promiscuous by nature. Everyone says
so."

 "'Everyone' is wrong, then. Some are, some aren't. The
emperor -- and I -- expect you to show both discrimination
and discretion. Let me remind you that you will hold the
throne of Mournhold not by right of blood but solely at the
pleasure of Tiber Septim. If he judges you unsuitable your
reign will end ere it begins. He requires intelligence,
obedience, discretion and total loyalty in all his
appointees, and he favors chastity and modesty in women. I
suggest you model your deportment after Drelliane."

 "I'd liefer be back in Black Moor," Barenziah said
indignantly.

 "That is not an option. If you are of no use to Tiber
Septim he will see to it that you are of no use to his enemies
either," Symmachus said coldly. "If you would keep your
head upon your shoulders take warning. Let me add that
power offers pleasures other than those of carnality and
low company." He spoke of art, literature, drama, music,
and grand balls. Barenziah listened with interest spurred
by his threats, but after asked if she might continue her study
of spellcasting while in Imperial City. Symmachus seemed
pleased and promised to arrange it. Pleased with this she then
said that she noted that three of their knights were women, and
asked if she might train a little in combat with them, just
for the sake of exercise. Symmachus looked less than pleased,
but agreed she might, although only with the women.

 The late winter weather held fair but cold for their
journey, so that they travelled quickly over firm roads. On
the last day, spring seemed to come at last for there was a
thaw, and the road grew sloppy underfoot, and everywhere
one could faintly hear the sound of water trickling and
dripping. 

 They came to the great bridge that crossed into Imperial
City at sunset. The rosy glow turned all the stark white
marble buildings a delicate pink. It all looked very new
and grand and immaculate. A broad avenue led straight
north to the Palace. There was a crowd of people of all
sorts in the streets. Lights winked out in the shops and on in
the inns as dusk fell and the stars came out one by one. Even
the side streets were broad and brightly lit. Near the
palace the towers of a grand Mage Guild reared to the east
while westward the stained glass windows of a great temple
glittered. 

 Symmachus had an apartment in a great house two blocks from
the palace, past the Temple, the Temple of the One, he said,
as they passed it, an ancient Nordic cult which Tiber Septim
had revived. He said that Barenziah would be expected to
become a member, should she prove acceptable to the
Emperor. 

 Symmachus' apartment was very grand, although little to
Barenziah's liking. The walls and furnishings were stark
white, relieved only by touches of bright gold, the floors
of gleaming black marble. Barenziah's eyes ached for color
and shadow.

 In the morning Symmachus and Drelliane escorted her to the
Imperial Palace. Barenziah noted that everyone they met
greeted Symmachus with a deferential respect which in some
cases bordered on obsequiousness. He took it quite for
granted. She and Symmachus were ushered directly into the
Imperial presence.

 Morning sun flooded the small room through a large window
with tiny panes, washing over the breakfast table and the
single man who sat there, dark against the light. He leapt to
his feet as they entered and hurried toward them, "Ah,
Symmachus, my friend, I welcome thy return most gladly."
His hands touched Symmachus shoulders briefly, fondly,
interrupting the deep bow the elf had begun. Barenziah
curtsied as Tiber Septim turned to her.

 "Barenziah, my naughty little runaway, how do you, child?
Here, let me have a look at you. Why, Symmachus, she's
charming, absolutely charming. Why have you hidden her from
us all these years? Is the light too much? Shall I draw the
hangings? Yes, of course." He waved aside Symmachus
protests and drew the curtains himself, not troubling to
summon a servant. "You will pardon me for this
discourtesy to my guests. I've much to think of, but that's
scant excuse for inhospitality -- ah, pray join me. There's
some excellent fruit from the Black Marsh."

 They settled themselves at the table. Barenziah was
astonished. Tiber Septim was nothing like the grim grey
giant warrior she'd pictured. He was only of middle height,
half a head shorter than tall Symmachus, although he was
well knit of figure and lithe in movement. He had a winning
smile, bright, indeed piercing, blue eyes, and a full head
of stark white hair above a lined and weathered face. He might
have been of any age from forty to sixty.

 He pressed food and drink upon them, then repeated his
question: why had she left her home? Had her guardians been
unkind to her?

 "No, excellency," Barenziah replied, "in truth, no,
although I fancied so at times." Symmachus had made up a lie
for her and Barenziah told it, although with misgivings. The
stableboy, Straw, had convinced her that her guardians,
unable to find a suitable husband for her, meant to sell her
as a concubine in Rihad, and when a Redguard had indeed come,
she had panicked and fled with him. Tiber Septim seemed
fascinated and listened raptly as she provided details of
her life as a merchant caravan guard.

 "Why, 'tis like a ballad," he said. "By the One, I'll have
the court bard set it to music. What a charming boy you must
have made."

 "Symmachus said--" Barenziah stopped in some confusion, "he
said, well, that I no longer look much like a boy. I have
grown in the past few months." She lowered her gaze in what
she hoped looked like maiden modesty.

 "He's a very discerning fellow, is my friend Symmachus."

 "I know I've been a very foolish girl. I must crave thy
pardon, and that of my kind guardians. I -- I realized that
some time ago, but I was too ashamed to go home. And I do
long for Morrowind. My soul pines for my own country."

 "My dear. You shall go home, I promise you, but I pray you
remain with us a little longer, that you may prepare
yourself for the stern task with which I shall charge you."
Barenziah gazed at him earnestly, heart beating hard. It was
all working just as Symmachus had said it would. She felt a
warm flush of gratitude toward him, but was  careful to keep
her attention focused on the Emperor. "I am honored,
Excellency, and wish most earnestly to serve you and this
great Empire you have forged in any way I can." It was the
politic thing to say, but Barenziah really meant it. She was
awed by the magnificence of the city and the discipline and
order everywhere evident, and was excited at the prospect of
being a part of it all. Plus she felt quite drawn to Tiber
Septim.

 After a few days Symmachus left for Mournhold to take up his
duties as governor until Barenziah was ready to assume the
throne, after which he would become her Prime Minister.
Barenziah, with Drelliane as chaperone, took up residence in
a suite at the Palace. Several tutors were provided for
her. During this time she became deeply interested in the
magical arts, but she found the study of history and
politics not at all to her taste.

 On occasion she met Tiber Septim in the Palace gardens and he
would unfailingly inquire politely as to her progress, and
chide her, although with a smile, over her disinterest in
matters of state. However, he was always happy to instruct
her on fine points of magic, and he could make even history
and politics seem interesting after all. "They're people,
child, not dry facts in a dusty book," he said. As her
understanding broadened their discussions became longer,
deeper and more frequent. He spoke to her of his vision of a
united Tamriel, each race separate and distinct but with
shared ideals and goals, all contributing to the common
weal.

 "Some things are universal, shared by all sentient folk of
good will," he said. "So the One teaches us. We must unite
against the malicious and the brutish, the mis-created, the
orcs, trolls, goblins and other worse creataures, not
strive 'gainst one another."

 His blue eyes would light as he stared into his dream, and
Barenziah was delighted just to sit and listen to him. If he
drew close to her, the side of her body next to him would glow
as if he were a fire. If their hands met she would tingle all
over as if his body were charged with a small shock spell. One
day, quite unexpectedly, he took her face in his hands and
kissed her gently on the mouth. She drew back after a few
moments, astonished by the violence of her feelings, and he
apologized instantly. "I didn't mean to do that. It's just
-- you are so beautiful, my dear. So very beautiful." He
was looking at her with a hopeless yearning in his face. She
turned away, tears streaming down her face. "Are you angry
with me? Talk to me."

 Barenziah shook her head. "I could never be angry with you. I
love you. I know it's wrong, but I can't help it."

 "I have a wife," he said. "She is a good and virtuous
woman, and the mother of my children. I could never put her
aside, yet there is nothing between us, no sharing of the
spirit. She would have had me be other than what I am. I am the
most powerful man in all Tamriel, and, Barenziah, I think I
am the most lonely as well. Power!" he said with contempt.
"I'd trade a goodly share of it for youth and love if the
gods allowed it."

 "But you are strong and vigorous and vital, more than any
man I've ever known."

 He shook his head. "Today, perhaps. Yet I am less than I was
yesterday, last year, ten years ago. I feel the sting of my
mortality and it is painful."

 "If I can ease thy pain, let me do so." Barenziah moved
towards him, hands outstretched.

 "I would not take thy innocence from thee."

 "I'm not that innocent."

 "How so?" Tiber Septim's voice grated harshly, his brow
knitted. Barenziah's mouth went dry. What had she done?

 "There was Straw," she faltered. "I -- I was lonely, too.
Am lonely. And not so strong as you." She cast her eyes down
in embarassment. "I'm not worthy--"

 "No, no, not so. Barenziah, it cannot last for long. You
have a duty in Mournhold. I must tend my Empire. Shall we
share what we may and pray the One forgives us our
frailty?"

 Tiber Septim held out his arms and, wordlessly, Barenziah stepped into his embrace. 
