Title: The Real Barenziah, Part X
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: False
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Real

[/center]Barenziah

[/center]Part X



[/font=4]



[/center]

 Barenziah stood at the open tower window, waiting. She
could sense her familiar's nearness, but though the night sky
was clear as day to her eyes she could not yet see him. Then suddenly he was there, a swift moving dot beneath the wispy night clouds. A few
more minutes and the great nighthawk  was there, wings folded,
talons reaching for her thick leather armband. She carried
the bird to its perch where it waited, panting, while her
impatient fingers felt for the message secured in a capsule
on one leg. It drank, then ruffled its feathers and began to
preen, secure in her presence. A tiny part of her
consciousness shared its satisfaction with a job well done,
rest earned ... yet beneath that was an unease. Things were
not right, even to its bird mind. 

 Her fingers shook as she unfolded the thin sheet and pored over
the sheet of cramped writing. Not Symmachus' bold hand!
Barenziah sat, slowly, fingers smoothing the document while
she prepared her mind and body to accept disaster calmly.

 The Imperial Guards had deserted Symmachus and joined the
rebels. The loyal troops had suffered a decisive defeat. The
rebel leader had been recognized as king of Morrowind by the
Emperor. Symmachus was dead. Barenziah and the children had
been declared traitors of  the Empire and a price set on
their heads.

 "My lady?" Barenziah jumped, startled at her servant's
approach. "The Breton is here. King Eadwyre," the woman
added helpfully, noting Barenziah's puzzlement. "Is there
news, my lady?" she said, nodding at the nighthawk.

 "Nothing that will not wait," Barenziah said quickly. "See
to the bird."

 King Eadwyre greeted her gravely and courteously, if rather fulsomely. He claimed to be a great admirer of
Symmachus, who figured prominently in his family legends.
Gradually he turned the conversation to her business with the
Emperor. Finding her noncommittal, he suddenly blurted
out, "My Lady Queen, you must believe me. The man posing as
the Emperor is an impostor! I know it sounds mad, but I -- "

 "No," Barenziah said, with sudden decisiveness. "You are
correct. I know."

 Eadwyre relaxed back into his seat for the first time, eyes
shrewd. "You know? You're not just humoring a madman? My
lady I -- we -- need your aid."

 Barenziah smiled grimly at the irony. "Of what assistance
might I be, my lord?"

 Quickly he outlined a plot. The Imperial Sorceress Ria
Silmane had been killed and declared a traitor by the false
emperor, yet she retained a bit of her power and could yet
contact a few of those she had known well on the mortal
plane. She had chosen a Champion who would undertake to
assemble the missing staff pieces and use the staff's power
to destroy Jagar Tharn, who was otherwise invulnerable, and
rescue the true Emperor, who was being held prisoner in
another plane. However, the chosen Champion languished now
in the Imperial Dungeons. Tharn's attention must be diverted
while he freed himself with Ria's help. Barenziah had Tharn's
ear and eye. Could she provide the necessary distraction?

 "I suppose I could obtain another audience with him. Would
that be sufficient? What do you mean, his eye?"

 Eadwyre looked uncomfortable. "It was whispered among the
servants that Jagar Tharn kept your likeness in a sort of
shrine in his chambers. That surprises you?"

 "Yes. And no."

 "Our chosen one may need a few days to escape."

 "You trust me in this? Why?"

 "We are desperate, my lady. We have no choice. But yes, I
do trust you. Symmachus -- "

 "Is dead." Barenziah explained quickly and coolly.

 "My Lady. What dreadful news!" For the first time
Eadwyre's urbane poise was shaken. "Under the circumstances,
we can hardly ask -- "

 "Nay, my lord king. Under the circumstances I must do what I
may to avenge myself upon the murderer of my childrens'
father. In return I ask only that you protect my orphaned
children as you may."

 "Most willingly do I so pledge, most brave and noble
lady!"

 Old fool, Barenziah thought. She did not sleep that night,
but sat in a chair beside her bed, hands folded in her lap,
thinking long deep thoughts. She would not tell the
children, not yet, not until she must.

 She had no need to seek another audience with the "Emperor"
for a summons came in the morning. She told the children she
expected to be gone a few days, bade them give the servants
no trouble and kissed them goodbye. Morgiah whimpered a bit,
for she was bored and lonely in Imperial City. Helseth looked
dour but said nothing. He was very like his father.

 At the palace, Barenziah was escorted not into the great
hall, but to a small parlor where the Emperor sat at a
solitary breakfast. He nodded a greeting, and waved his hand
at the window. "Splendid view, isn't it?"

 Barenziah stared out over the towers of the great city. It
dawned on her that this was the very chamber where she'd first
met Tiber Septim and a strong wave of inchoate feeling
swept over her. When she turned back at last Uriel Septim had
vanished and Nightingale sat in his place, laughing.

 "You knew," he said accusingly, scanning her face. "I
wanted to surprise you. You might at least pretend."

 Barenziah spread her arms, "I'm afraid my skills at pretense
are no match for yours, my liege."

 "You're angry with me." He pretended to pout.

 "Just a little," she said icily. "I do find betrayal
offensive."

 "How human of you."

 "What do you want of me?"

 He wiped his mouth and stood erect. "Now you are
pretending. You know what I want of you, my love."

 "You want to tantalize and torment me. Go ahead. I'm in
your power."

 "No, no, no. I don't want that at all, Barenziah." He came
near, speaking low in the old caressing voice that sent
shivers over her body. "Don't you see? This was the only
way." His hands closed on her arms.

 "You could have taken me with you!" Tears gathered in her
eyes.

 He shook his head. "I didn't have the power. Ah, but now, now I
have it all. Mine to have, mine to share -- with you." He
waved his hand toward the window and the city beyond. "All
Tamriel to lay at your feet -- and that is only the
beginning."

 "It's too late. Too late. You left me to him."

 "He's dead. A scant few years...what does it matter?"

 "The children -- "

 "I'll adopt them. We'll have others together, Barenziah. I
have powers you do not dream of!" He moved to kiss her but she
slipped his grasp and turned away. 

 "I don't believe you."

 "You do, you know. You're still angry, that's all." His
smile did not reach his eyes. "What do you want?"

 She shrugged. "A walk in the garden. A song or two."

 "Ah. You want to be courted."

 "Why not? You do it so well. It's been long since I've had
the pleasure."

 And so they spent their days in courtship, walking, talking,
singing and laughing together, while the Empire's business
was left to underlings.

 "I'd like to see the staff," Barenziah said idly one day. "I
only had a glimpse of it."

 "Nothing would give me greater pleasure, heart's delight,
but that's impossible."

 "You don't trust me," Barenziah pouted, but she softened her
lips for his kiss.

 "Nonsense, love. It isn't here. In fact, it isn't
anywhere." He laughed and kissed her again, softly.

 "Now you're talking in riddles again. I want to see it. You
can't have destroyed it."

 "Ah, you've gained in wisdom, since last we met."

 "You piqued my interest somewhat. The staff can't be
destroyed and it can't be removed from Tamriel, not without
the direst consequences to the land itself."

 "Ahhh. All true. And yet, as a I said, it isn't anywhere.
Can you solve the riddle?" He pulled her to him and she
leaned into his embrace. "Here's a greater riddle still," he
whispered, "how to make one of two. That I can and will show
you." Their bodies merged, limbs tangled together. Later,
when they'd drawn a bit apart and dozed, she thought,
sleepily. "One of two, two of one, three of two...what
cannot be destroyed or banished might be split apart,
perhaps..."

 Nightingale kept a diary. He scribbled entries in it each
night after quick reports from his underlings. It was locked
but the lock was a simple one, so Barenziah managed to sneak
quick looks at it while he was occupied in toileting himself.
She discovered that the first staff piece was hidden in an
ancient dwarven mine called Fang Lair, although its
location was given only in vague terms. The diary was
crammed with jotted events in an odd shorthand, and was
very hard to decipher.

 All Tamriel, she thought, in his hands and mine, and more
perhaps, and yet ...  For all his surface charm there was a
cold emptiness where his heart should have been, an emptiness
of which he was quite unaware, she thought. One could glimpse
it now and then, when his eyes would go blank and hard.
Peasant dreams, Barenziah thought, and Straw flashed before
her eyes, looking sad, and then Therris, with a mocking smile
and empty eye sockets. Symmachus, who did what must be done,
quietly and efficiently. Nightingale. Nightingale, who
would rule all, and more, and yet spread chaos in the name
of control.

 Barenziah got reluctant leave from Nightingale to go to
her children, who had to be told of their father's death and
of the emperor's offer of his protection to them. Eadwyre
called on them while she was there, and she told him what she
had discovered so far, and explained that she must remain
awhile yet and learn more as she could.

 Nightingale teased her about her elderly admirer. He was
quite aware of Eadwyre's suspicion, although as he said, no
one took the old fool seriously. Barenziah managed to
arrange a reconciliation of sorts between them. Eadwyre
publicly recanted his suspicions and his "old friend"
forgave him. Thus he was invited to dine with them at least
once a week. The children liked Eadwyre, even Helseth, who
disapproved of his mother's liaison with the "Emperor" and
consequently detested Nightingale. He had become surly and
temperamental and frequently quarreled with both of them.

 Eadwyre was not happy either and Nightingale delighted in
publicly displaying his affection for Barenziah. They
could not marry, of course, for Uriel Septim was already
married. He had exiled the true Empress shortly after taking
Septim's place, but had not dared to harm her. She was held
by the Temple of the One. It had been given out publicly
that she was in ill health, and rumors had been circulated
that she had mental problems. The Emperor's children had
also been dispatched to various prisons disguised as
"schools".

 "She'll grow worse in time," Nightingale said carelessly,
eying Barenziah's swollen breasts and belly with
satisfaction. "As for his children ... well, life is full
of hazards, isn't it? We'll be married. Your child will be
my true heir." He did want the child. Barenziah was sure of
that. She was far less sure of his feelings for her. They
quarrelled, often violently, usually about Helseth, whom
he wanted to send away to school. Barenziah made no effort
to avoid these quarrels. Nightingale had no interest in a
peaceful life and he thoroughly enjoyed making up
afterwards. Occasionally Barenziah would take the children
and retreat to their old apartment, declaring she wanted no
more to do with him. 

 She was six months pregnant before she finally deciphered
the location of the last staff piece -- an easy one, since
every dark elf knew where Dagoth-Ur was. When next she
quarrelled with Nightingale she simply left the city with
Eadwyre and they rode hard for High Rock and Wayrest.

 Nightingale was furious, but there was little he could do.
His assassins were rather inept, and he dared not leave his
seat of power to pursue them in person, nor could he openly
declare war on Wayrest. He had no legitimate claim on her on
her unborn child. The nobility had disapproved of his
liaison with Barenziah and were glad that she had gone.
Wayrest was equally disapproving and distrustful of her,
but Eadwyre was much beloved by his prosperous little city,
and allowances were readily made for his eccentricities.

 Barenziah and Eadwyre were married a year after the birth of
her son by Jagar Tharn. Eadwyre doted on her. She did not
love him, but she was fond of him, and that was something. It
was nice to have someone, and Wayrest was a very pleasant
place, a good place for children to grow up, while they
waited, and hoped, and prayed for their Champion's success
in his long mission.                                                           
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                          
