Title: The Fall of the Usurper
Author: Palaux Illthre
IsNaughty: False
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Fall

[/center]of

[/center]the Usurper



[/font=4]



[/center] The people of Dwynnen celebrate Othroktide every 5th of
Suns Dawn,  the date when, according to legent, a man
emerged from the wilderness of High Rock and defeated the
undead of Castle Wightmoor to become the first Baron of
Dwynnen. Few people believe the legend anymore, but there
most certainly was a Baron Othrok of Dwynnen who was
destined to become one of true heroes of High Rock, if not
all Tamriel.

 The legend, as most any Dwynnen child will tell you, is
that years and years ago (archivists have agreed to the year
3E 253), the people of Dwynnen were ruled by a lich and its
armies of zombies, ghosts, vampires, and skeletons. Othrok
was blessed with by gods and given an army of men and
animals to destroy the dead. He brought peace and prosperity
to the land, growing more powerful as the land improved.
Years later, he led the tiny barony against the Camoran
Usurper, and saved all of Tamriel.

 How much credit the Baron ought to receive for the defeat of
the Camoran Usurper has been debated, but it is an
uncontestable fact that in the year 3E 267, the Camoran
Usurper's relentless move north through High Rock was halted
around the area of contemporary Dwynnen. Dwynnen is
actually larger than it was in the first Baron's day -- it did
not, in fact, have a sea port -- but the Battle of Firewaves
was a coastal battle. The fact that the battle probably
did not occur in Dwynnen does not in itself belittle the
Baron's participation in it.

 The Camoran Usurper had conquered Hammerfell and
Valenwood by means of a large army, which by legend
consisted entirely of undead and daedra, but was mostly
composed of Redguards and Wood Elves. In all
probability, the Usurper summoned the daedra and undead in
Arenthia and slowly replaced the original summoned
creatures with the armies of his conquered territories. Most
armies of Valenwood have been historically mercenary.

 Word of the Usurper's conquests reached High Rock in early
266, but preparations to repel the invasion did not begin
until early the following year. Historians attribute two
factors to High Rock's hesistancy. The primary powers of the
Bay were ruled by particularly inept monarchs -- Wayrest
and Sentinel both had kings in their minority, and
Daggerfall was torn by contention between Helena and her
cousin Jilathe. The Lord of Reich Gradkeep (now Anticlere)
was deathly ill through 266 and finally died at the end of
the year. There were, in short, no leaders to unite the
province against the Usurper. Of the leaders with any
influence, at least eight (the "Eight Traitors" of legend)
made secret allegiances with the Usurper to protect their
lands.

 The secondary reason for the lethargy of High Rock had to do
with the depth of relations between the province and the
Septim Empire. For the first time since the beginning of the
Dynasty, an Emperor ruled Tamriel who was neither Breton
nor had spent any of his childhood in High Rock. The difference
between Cephorus II and his cousin Uriel IV who preceded him
was appalling to the people of High Rock. Even mad Emperors
like Pelagius III revered the Bretons over all other races,
and cousins and younger siblings of the Emperors have ruled
in High Rock since the foundation of the Empire. Cephorus was a
Nord, with Skyrim and Morrowind sympathies. The attitude of
the common men of High Rock was sympathetic toward the
Camoran Usurper as an archfoe of this hated Emperor.

 The Baron and his less legendary allies, the rulers of
Ykalon, Phrygia, and Kambria, changed this favorable
perception. News of the Usurper's barbaric treatment of
captives and abuse of conquered lands, mostly true, spread
rapidly through their territories, and then to other neutral
lands. Within a few months, the greatest navy ever combined
organized along the High Rock edge of the Iliac Bay. Only the
navy of Uriel V's illfated invasion of Akavir was
comparable.

 How the combined forces of High Rock defeated the endless army
of the Camoran Usurper is certainly worthy of a lengthy book
in itself. And perhaps, it is best left to the public
imagination. Certainly the weather worked against the
Usurper, which is reason in itself to attribute divine
intervention.

 Baron Othrok's divine purpose is the central theme to
Othroktide, after all. And as the poet Braeloque wrote,
"To find the facts, the wisest always look first to the
fiction."



 
