Title: Galerion the Mystic
Author: Asgrim Kolsgreg
IsNaughty: False
Price: 638
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]Galerion

[/center]The Mystic



[/font=4]

[/center]

     During the early bloody years of the Second Era, Vanus
Galerion was born under the name Trechtus, a serf on the
estate of a minor nobleman, Lord Gyrnasse of
Sollicich-on-Ker. Trechtus' father and mother were common
laborers, but his father had secretly, against the law of
Lord Gyrnasse, taught himself and then Trechtus to read.
Lord Gyrnasse had been advised that literate serfs were an
abomination of nature and dangerous to themselves and their
lords, and had closed all bookstalls within
Sollicich-on-Ker. All booksellers, poets, and teachers were
forbidden, except within Gyrnasse's keep. Nevertheless, a small scale smuggling operation kept a number of books and
scrolls in circulation right under Gyrnasse's shadow.

     When Trechtus was eight, the smugglers were found and
imprisoned. Some said that Trechtus's mother, an ignorant
and religious woman fearful of her husband, was the
betrayer of the smugglers, but there were other rumors as
well. The trial of the smugglers was nonexistant, and the
punishment swift. The body of Trechtus' father was kept
hanging for weeks during the hottest summer Sollicich-on-Ker
had seen in centuries.

     Three months later, Trechtus ran away from Lord
Gyrnasse's estate. He made it as far as Alinor, half-way
across Sumurset Isle. A band of troubadours found him
nearly dead, curled up in a ditch by the side of the road,
nursed him to health, and employed him as an errand boy in
return for food and shelter. One of the troubadours, a
soothsayer named Heliand began testing Trechtus' mind and
found the boy, though shy, to be preternaturally
intelligent and sophisticated given his circumstances. Heliand
recognized in the boy a commonality, for Heliand had been
trained on the Isle of Artaeum as a mystic.

     When the troupe was performing in the village of Potansa
on the far eastern end of Sumurset, Heliand took Trechtus,
then a boy of eleven, to the Isle of Artaeum. The Magister
of the Isle, Iachesis, recognized potential in Trechtus and
took him on as pupil, giving him the name of Vanus Galarion.
Vanus trained his mind on the Isle of Artium, as well as his
body.

     Thus was the first Archmagister of the Mages Guild
trained. From the Psijics of the Isle of Artaeum, he received
his training. From his childhood of want and injustice, he
received his philosophy of sharing knowledge. 
