Title: On Oblivion
Author: Morian Zenas
IsNaughty: False
Price: 559
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]On

[/center]Oblivion



[/font=4]

[/center]

 It is improper, though common, to refer to the denizens of
the dimension of Oblivion as demons. This practice must
probably dates to the Alessian Doctrines of the prophet
Marukh which, rather amusingly, forbade traffic with
"daimons," and then neglected to explain what demons are.
It is most probable that "daimon" is a mispelling of
"daedra," the old Elvish word for the strange, powerful
creatures of uncertain motivation who come from the
dimension of Oblivion. In later tractates by King Hale the
Pious of Skyrim, almost a thousand years after the
publication of the original Doctrines, the evil of his
political enemies is compared to "the wickedness of the demons
of Oblivion ... their depravity equals that of Sanguine
itself, they are cruel as Boethiah, calculating as Molag Bal, and mad
as Sheogorath."

 Hale the Pious thus longwindedly introduced four of the
daedra lords to the written record.

 The written record is not, after all, the best way to
research Oblivion and the daedra that inhabit it. Those who,
in the words of the Alessian Doctrine, "traffic with
daimons" seldom wish it to be a matter of public record.
Nevertheless, scattered throughout the literature of the
first era, are diaries, journals, notices for witch
burnings, and guides for daedra-slayers which contain only a
few contradictions. These I have used as my primary source material.

 They are at least as trustworthy as the daedra lords I have
actually summoned and spoken with at length.

 Oblivion is a place composed of many lands, thus the many
names for which Oblivion is synonymous: Coldharbour,
Quagmire, Moonshadow, and others. It may be supposed that
each land of Oblivion is ruled by one prince. The princes
whose name appears over and over (though this is not a sure
test of their authenticity, to be sure) are the
aforementioned Sanguine, Boethiah, Molag Bal, Sheogorath,
and Azura, Mephala, Clavicus Vil, Vaernima, Malacath,
Hoermius (or Hermaeus or Hormaius, there is no consistant
spelling) Mora, Namira, Jyggalag, Nocturnal, Mehrunes
Dagon, and Peryite.

 From my experience, Daedra are a very mixed lot. It is
almost impossible to categorize them as a whole except for
their immense power and their penchant for extremism.

 Mehrunes Dagon, Molag Bal, Peryite, Boethiah, and Vaernima
are among the most consistently "demonic" of the Daedra, in
the sense that their spheres seem to be destructive in nature.
The other daedra can, of course, be very dangerous, but
seldom purely for the sake of destruction, as these five can.

 Nor are those five aforementioned daedra identical in their
destruction. Mehrunes Dagon seems to prefer natural
disasters, earthquakes and volcanos, to vent his spleen.
Molag Bal prefers employing actual daedralings, and
Boethiah inspires the arms of mortal warriors. Peryite
sphere seems to be pestilence, and Vaernima's torture.

 Summoning daedra is not a difficult proposition, but it is
usual an expensive one. Most Mages Guilds have a summoning
room, but this is most often reserved for the highest echelon
of guildmembers. Witches covens are much less class
sensitive, and the Necromancers, the Dark Brotherhood, and
many secretive kings and queens of Tamriel have private
summoning rooms. Daedra princes usually demand some sort
of service of those who summon them, though I am fortunate
enough to have good relations with some and need not
perform.

 In preparation for the second chapter of this series, I will
be investigating two matters that have intrigued me since I
began my career as a daedra researcher. The first is on one
particular Daedra Prince, referred to in multiple
articles of incunabula as Hircine. Hircine has been called
"the huntsman of the Princes" and "the father of manbeasts,"
but I have yet to find anyone who can summon him.

 The other, and more doubtful goal I have for the next
chapter is to find a practical means for mortal man to
pass through to Oblivion. It has always been my philosophy
that we only need fear that which we do not understand, and
with that thought in mind, I pursue my goal.

 
