Title: Mysticism
Author: Tetronius Lor
IsNaughty: False
Price: 661
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]Mysticism:

[/center]The

[/center]Unfathomable

[/center]Voyage



[/font=4]

[/center]

[/center]     Mysticism is the school of magic least understood by the
magical community, most difficult to explain to novices
mages. The spells effects commonly ascribed to the School
of Mysticism are as wildly disparate as Soul Trap -- the
creation of a cell for a victim's spirit after death -- to
Silence -- the extinction of sound. But these effects are
simply that: effects. The sorcery behind them is veiled in a
mystery that may go back to the oldest civilizations of
Tamriel, and beyond.

     The Psijics of the Order of Artaeum's term for Mysticism
is the Old Way. The phrase becomes bogged in a semantic
quagmire, because the Old Way also refers to the religion
and customs of the Psijics which may, or may not, be part of
the magic of Mysticism.

     There are few mages who devote their lives to the study of
Mysticism. The other schools are far more predictable and
fathomable. Mysticism seems to derive its power from its
cunundrums and paradoxes; the act of experimentation, no
matter how objectively implemented, can influence the
magicka by its very existance. Thus, the Mystic mage must
regulate himself to finding consistant patterns in an
imbroglio of energy. In the time it takes him to find a source
with a consistant trigger and result, his peers researching
in other schools may have researched and documented dozens of
new spells and effects. The Mystic mage is a patient and
uncompetitve scholar.

     For centuries, mostly during the Second Era, scholarly
journals publishes theory after theory about the aspect or
aspects of magicka that we call Mysticism. In the tradition
of the Mages Guild to find answers to all things, respected
researchers suggested the energy source as coming from
Aetherius or the Daedra themselves to explain the seemingly
random patterns of Mysticism; some ventured to guess that
Mysticism comes from unused elements of successfully or
unsuccessfully cast spells; discussion with the Order of
Artaeum after its reappearance has led some scholars to
postulate that Mysticism is more spiritual in nature, either
the intellect or emotion of the believer influences the
energy pattern and flow.

     None of these explanations is truly satisfactory. For
the beginning student of Mysticism, it is best to simple
learn the patterns distinguished in the maelstrom in the
centuries past. The more patterns are found, the clearer the
remaining ones become. Until, of course, they change. And
then the journey begins anew.







 
