Title: Special Flora of Tamriel
Author: Hardin
IsNaughty: False
Price: 453
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]Special Flora

[/center]of

[/center]Tamriel



[/font=4]



[/center] Poppies, both black and white, can be found growing wild in
the mountains of Hammerfell. Their succulent pods are often
the only nourishment of adventurers who find themselves in
the wilderness without rations. It is said that the black and
white poppies together have magical properties. When they
are crushed and mixed with the milk of the agile footed
mountain goat, a potion that allows the user to glide
safely above the ground can be made.

 Fire Fern, a perennial herb, native to Morrowind. The
flowers are inconspicuous and often hidden. The glossy,
evergreen foliage and flowers are resistant to the
conditions of high heat and bright light. A petal from this
plant placed under an adventurer's tongue will provide
protection from the heat and fire found in the lava pits and
streams found around Dagoth-Ur.      Dragon's-Tongue, common
name for a fern like herb found in Black Marsh. It is
especially prolific around  the area of Utherus Swamp. It is
a beautiful wildflower. Its name comes from the fire red
fronds that protect its golden flower. As pretty as it is,
it is a deadly poison to most living beings and needs to be
avoided by adventurers. It is said, however, that Argonians
can pick the plant and use the sap derived from its roots as
an enhancement to their endurance. 

 Domica Redwort is a herb grown by many residents of
Valenwood for their beautiful and showy flowers. They
attain a height of about three feet and have feathery leaves;
the flowers are usually bright red. In addition to their
beauty, they are said to have magical abilities to enhance
the appearance of anyone who carries or wears one of the
flowers.

 Ironwood Nut, this rare nut comes from the Ironwood trees
which grow deep in the forests of Skyrim. The  wood from these
trees is as hard as the metal for which they are named. The
very rare black ironwood tree is said to produce a nut which
is very succulent and is believed to enhance the strength of
the adventurer who is able to crack its shell.

 The Ginko leaves which are found along the banks of rivers and
lakes in Hammerfell are most inconspicuous, only its
peculiar halfmoon shape makes it noticeable. It is very sweet
and tasty. Legend has it that when mixed properly with the
pulp of the Aloe plant, the potion has the ability to
increase one's stamina for a short while.

 The Somnalius Fern can be found in the swamps of Black
Marsh. The fronds from this plant are light green and quite delicate.
Picking a frond can be very difficult, but once retrieved it
can be used to put an enemy to sleep for a short while by
passing it under his nose.

 Arrowroot is a thick, rubbery tuber that can be found in the
Province of Valenwood. The plant is very difficult to
find as its above ground foliage is very meager and
scrawny. But the Arrowroot itself can be most beneficial to
the gatherer as it has magical properties. The paste made
from grinding the root is very tasty and can improve the
user's accuracy with a bow and arrow.

 Nightshade is reputed to be a very poisonous herb. However
the variety found in many parts of Elsweyr is cherished by
Khajiits who have followed the career path of thievery. Many
Khajiits will tuck a piece of Nightshade inside their armor to
increase their abilities to skulk, hide and become invisible. 
