Title: A Scholar's Guide to Nymphs
Author: Vondham Barres
IsNaughty: False
Price: 770
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]A Scholar's Guide to

[/center]Nymphs



[/font=4]

 I grew up a scholar, an ascetic devoted to knowledge, with
eyes that saw beauty in a fascinating passage in a dusty
tome, love in the candle that allowed me to study on
starless nights, passion in a well-reasoned argument of a
long dead issue. I was a student who never graduated and was
never expelled.

 Though I am not defending myself, I should further define
myself. I am not what you would call a prude. In fact, I
can speak of subjects in a detached way that would make the
most debauched strumpet in Skyhawk blush with discovered
modesty. I wrote an essay the House of Dibella as a scholar
should, analysing the cult of beauty and physical
relations as one might study crop rotation or the digestive
system of an orc. The acquaintances of mine who were
inclined to wink and giggle I tolerated, but barely.

 With all that said, the reader will understand that when I
decided to study the language of the nymphs in order to study
their character and culture, it was not a decision I made on
account of prurience or lust. Scholars have historically
neglected the nymph as a subject worthy of research, and this
neglect I attribute to prejudice. The sages with whom I have
spoken on the subject have eloquently and intelligently
formed sentences which, boiled down, can be translated as:
"Nymphs look like beautiful, naked women who skip along
tra-la-la and like to have indisciminate sex. What could they
have to say that would be of any interest?"

 So here I was faced with the most daunting of projects -- to
study and research a species unstudied is a potentially
rewarding challenge. If the subject was unstudied because
the scientific community had deemed it beneath interest, a
potentially rewarding but decidedly frustrating
challenge. If I spent months in serious study of their
language and culture and additional time in their company,
and discovered nothing more than that the common prejudice
is correct, the term "laughing stock" would not do me
justice.

 So, excited and nervous for reasons unrelated to the
notoriously promiscuous behavior of my subjects, I began my
studies. I mastered the language, a melodious tongue that
sounds like wild elf and faerie but share no vocabulary with
them. I studied the lore, and found it to be on the whole,
little more than pornography and crude conjecture.

 I next had to find a nymph.

 From my centralized location in the Imperial City, I found
it easy to send word around to several wellknown temples and
guilds devoted to study in all the provinces. Not all
replies back were serious in nature, but one, from the School
of Julianos in Sentinel helped me considerably. To
Magister Oitos and his disciples, I here offer my sincere
gratitude.

 Nymphs are extremely shy creatures, no matter what the more
obscene stories will tell you. No one who I've spoken with has
had one seek him or her out. Thus to speak with a nymph requires
energy and patience.

 Out of courtesy for her privacy, I will not here give the
location of the little grotto off the coast of Hammerfell
where I found the nymph. It took three months of patient
waiting, leaving presents where I knew the nymph would be,
before the nymph stood still at my approach.

 I remember I was carrying a bouquet of purple and white
tetias, and she looked at them and then at me, and smiled. The
effect of her smile was truly magical, I'm convinced. Her
body was, of course, perfect; her face lovely and serene; her
hair like silk flame. But until she smiled, she was beautiful
in the abstract, a perfect statue by a master. The smile made
her approachable and, thus, terrifying.

 "For you," I said, attempting my first utterance of Nymph
to a real nymph.

 Her smile grew into a grin which became a giggle and then a
laugh. The reader has doubtless heard of the silver laughter
of the elves. The nymph's laugh is earthy and spontaneous,
and very ... suggestive.

 "And what do you want from me in return, mortal?" she asked.

 "I am," There is no, I should say, known word in the Nymph
language for scholar, "I am a man who likes to learn things.
I want to learn things about you."

 And I did.

 Nymphs are the wisest, most wonderful creatures in Tamriel.
My nymph, her name is Ayalea (a poor phonetic transcription
of a word that sounds more like a light wind blowing through
a small crack in a hollow chamber) and she knows more about
the behavior and varieties of the deep woodland creatures
than the greatest wood elf scholar I ever met. She taught me
of flowers and ghosts and creatures too fast and timid to
have ever been seen by man.

 Ayalea taught me how to learn for the very first time. How to
open my mind to all of the possibilities of life and how to
use that knowledge, not just to hold in my cramped brain like
a dragon's horde.

 If you ever meet a nymph, speak to her.



 *    *    *

 Editor's note: the writer Vondham Barres is no longer a
scholar at the Imperial University. He deposited this
manuscript and disappeared from the civilized world. His
current wherebouts are unknown.











  

 
