Title: King Edward, Part III
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: False
Price: 300
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]King Edward, Part III



[/font=4]

 Chapter 3: Lessons

 The golden days passed swiftly. Edward spent most of his
time in the company of his parents. He saw few other children.
None at all lived in 'their' tree, only their wood elf host
and Moraelyn's six Companions, an oddly assorted, cheerful
lot. Disrespectful, Edward thought. None of the Daggerfall
court or servants would dared have addressed his father as
these did Moraelyn and Aliera with their constant raillery.
But these weren't servants or courtiers. Just ...
Companions. Only one was a Dark Elf. There were a Khajiit woman, two wood elves,
brother and sister, a Nordic man, even bigger than Moraelyn and a strange looking
lizardlike man, who spoke with such a hissing accent that Edward
couldn't understand him at all. The Nord man was called
"Slave of Moraelyn" or just "Slave" for short, although
Moraelyn usually called him "Mats" of "My-slave." Mats
tended the group's weapons and gathered wood for the evening fires. But it wasn't unusual for the
others to bring wood; Moraelyn himself often borrowed Mats' axe and
fetched and split wood if there was need, or if he  just felt
like it.

 They spent much of their time roaming the woods and fields,
hunting and gathering produce, in twos and threes. Usually
Moraelyn, Aliera and Edward and Shade went off together.
They carried bows for hunting. When Edward asked Moraelyn
to teach him to shoot better, he was told to ask his mother, as
she was the better shot. And it was Aliera's arrow that
brought down a handsome buck, although both arrows had
struck, and they quarrelled  over who's arrow had killed as they ran toward
the buck.

 "Bah!" Moraelyn exclaimed as he pulled his black fletched
arrow from the hindquarters. "I don't know how I managed to feed myself
before I married you."

 "You had the Companions."

 "Aye. Mats, Mith and I starved together, before we  met Beech and
Willow." Moraelyn pulled out his black dagger, Tooth, and
began to skin the animal's body, calling Edward to come and
watch. "You want to learn about animals, don't you?"

 "Live ones." Edward said with distaste. His dainty mother was
ripping the skin away with enthusiasm.

 "Such make tough eating," the dark elf said. "Give me your
cloak; I'll make a package for you to carry."

 "I am a Prince, not a pack horse!"

 "You'll carry your share or you'll be a hungry prince this night." The elf had lost his good humor.

 "I won't. I don't want any. You can't make me."

 Moraelyn stood erect and appeared to think this over.
"Can't I?" he taunted.

 "Edward, please--" Aliera appealed to him.

 "Tell me, Lord Prince, how then does one get the meat to
one's table if one may not carry it. If Princes may not
carry meat then certainly Kings and Queens may not ... or do
Princes grow out of the incapacity when they  become Kings?"

 "They have servants!"

 "Serve ants? What a clever idea. Only a human could think
of that! Ants are excellent at carrying, I have noted,
although I have not the trick of commanding them. Perhaps you
can teach me."

 "Servants! Like Mats here," Edward shouted. He hated being
teased. Mats and the other companions had come up, having heard their
shouts over the kill.

 "Mats? You think I cannot make you carry deer meat, yet I
could command Mats to do so?" Moraelyn stared up at the
blond giant. "Well, one never knows until one tries. Mats,
carry the deer."

 The blond scratched his head and jaw thoughtfully. "Highness,
nothing would please me more ... .but it is a large deer and
my old wound is troubling my back ... perhaps if you kill a
smaller one."

 "Well, Prince, what now?"

 "You beat him."

 "At what? I can outrun him. Mats, if I reach that oak first,
will you carry the deer." Mats shook his head slowly.

 "You beat him with a stick!" Edward yelled.

 "What promise you show as a Healer, my Prince. You will
forgive me if I refrain from consulting you until you have
further training. It is my judgement that  beating with a
stick will not improve Mats' back. Of  course, I may be in
error.

 "Silk, you carry the deer."

 "Me, milord? I am sorry, but I have just remembered that I
am fourth cousin to the fifth house of Dibella, Queen of
Heaven. My dignity forbids that I carry anything at all."

 Willow and Beech claimed that a mage had forbidden either of them from
carrying any part of an animal while the moon Jone was risen.

 "Prince, are you truly certain about this rule? It seems to
make life most inconvenient. We could bring the wood to the
deer, which will take many  hours and leave us benighted here.
We could consume the meat raw on the spot, but I own my
belly is not yet empty enough to make that option attractive.
Aliera, can you help us? How do the High Rock folk get meat to table?"

 "Milord, when I lived there it was my firm belief that it
appeared by magic. There were servants, but they were an irritating, lazy lot, more trouble than they were
worth. Edward, my son, is it possible that this rule applies
only in High Rock?"

 "I suppose so ... ."

 Edward carried a share of meat that bent his back, but he did
not complain. And so it was settled, and the meal that night
was a merry one. But for several days after, if the
Companions caught him carrying anything at all they would
inquire anxiously as to whether a High Rock Prince might do so.

 "If Mats is not a servant, then why do they call him
'Moraelyn's Slave'?" Edward asked one drowsy afternoon.

 "Well, he is my slave. I paid gold for him, all that Mith
and I had. We came on a man beating him near Reich Parthkeep. He looked near death; when  Mith and I tried to stop the beating, the
man said Mats was a runaway slave, and he'd do as he liked with him.
So I threw down the gold and told him he could take it and
leave, else I would kill him out of hand. He chose the latter,
so I told Mats to take the gold as his master's heir and go where he would. He chose to come with us, so we buried the gold with his master and Mats has
been with us since."

 "Could he leave if he wanted to?"

 "Of course."

 "May I go pick some of those berries over there?" Edward
asked, and Moraelyn nodded. 

 Aliera was sleeping curled on her side. Moraelyn sat next
to her, leaning back against a tree,  his hand playing with
her long dark curls. His eyes and skin were sensitive to the
bright sun. Shade slept stretched in the sun nearby, his  dark
fur glinting with silver in the light. Edward wandered over
to the bushes and picked the bright glowberries, so called
because they glowed at night, although right now they were a
rather dull gray. But they tasted very good. If he ate
enough, would he glow at night, he wondered. Or if he smashed them and collected the
juice ... the bushes caught at him, then he  found a sort of
tunnel through them and trotted along it, wondering where it
led.

 It ended in a small clearing before a pile of rocks. There
was a hole and something in it. Edward stepped back, making a
small noise in his  throat. The something heaved and
presented a tusky snarling face and hooves that pawed at the earth.

 The boy backed away slowly. The beast's head went down, the shoulders
heaved and the immense bulk lumbered into a charge. Edward
tried to throw himself into the bushes ... there was no room ... and then,
incredibly, Moraelyn was in front of him, between him and the beast. There was a flash and a
crash, and the elf seemed to leap  backwards for several
feet, landing crouched just in front of Edward's face. The
air whistled as his blade seemed to jump out of the sheath of
its own accord. There was a sparkle in the air around him, and a burnt smell. Silence.

 "Get out of here, boy! Now!"

 Edward fled, yelling for his mother, who was running toward the bushes and calling him. She clasped him
to her, and began shouting for Moraelyn  instead. There was
no answer, then, somehow the elf was there, unharmed, his blade sheathed again. But he was breathing hard.

 "Did you kill it? Are you hurt?"

 "No and no. I was shielded. Barely. You disturbed a sow in
her den with her litter. Fortunately, she thought she'd had eno
ugh after the first
impact. I daresay she's unaccustomed to finding her enemies
still standing afterwards."

 "Why didn't you kill her?" Edward demanded, feeling
bloodthirsty after his fright.

 "A katana, even the Ebony Blade, is not the weapon I'd choose against a mother sow. A spear, maybe. The
longer the better. Besides, if we leave her be, there'll be six
pigs here next year, with luck."

 "You made a magic shield," Edward said, wide-eyed.

 "Aye, barring the shield, she'd have left a few marks even on
a tough old dark elf."

 "Edward, it would be gracious to thank your rescuer." His mother prompted.

 "Thank you," Edward said automatically, his mind busy with
more questions. How had the elf known of his danger? How did he get there
gh after the first
impact. I daresay she's unaccustomed to finding her enemies
still standing afterwards."

 "Why didn't you kill her?" Edward demanded, feeling
bloodthirsty after his fright.

 "A katana, even the Ebony Blade, is not the weapon I'd choose against a mother sow. A spear, maybe. The
longer the better. Besides, if we leave her be, there'll be six
pigs here next year, with luck."

 "You made a magic shield," Edward said, wide-eyed.

 "Aye, barring the shield, she'd have left a few marks even on
a tough old dark elf."

 "Edward, it would be gracious to thank your rescuer." His mother prompted.

 "Thank you," Edward said automatically, his mind busy with
more questions. How had the elf known of his danger? How did he get there
so quickly?

 "There is scarcely need to thank me for saving my son's life.
Thank Shade," Moraelyn said. "The cat told me there was
trouble."

 Edward knelt and hugged the smug purring cat. "Good old
Shade. I can always count on him."

 "My son". "Our son". The words rang proudly out at the
least excuse. Edward puzzled over this for awhile; it wanted an explanation. The one he
favored was that Moraelyn simply didn't know him very well
yet, and was prone to give the benefit of the doubt to
strangers. Eventually ... but in the meantime he might as
well enjoy it. It was ... nice. Having a father that was
proud of you, that liked being with you, took you places,
talked to you, listened to you. And most remarkably of all, let you alone when you needed to be. Moraelyn only really liked being alone when he was
composing a ballad.

 Edward told Beech and Willow about the mother pig. "I ran
when he told me to. Would you? Because he said to. I couldn't think of any way to help, but ... "
Willow and Beech listened carefully, exchanged glances, and
said they'd think about the problem.

 After supper around the evening fire, Willow took up her
small harp and began to sing about the joys of an autumn
afternoon and berries ... .except that Moraelyn sent the
boy off to pick berries. They'd got that part wrong.
Moraelyn sat up sharply and looked around, but the others had slipped away into the
darkness and Willow wasn't looking at him.

 Mith strolled into the firelight, taking mincing steps,
picking pantomime berries and eating them noisily. Moraelyn
put his head down and groaned. Mith pantomimed finding something then skipped along in delight. Mats' head and shoulders
lurched into the firelight. Mith reached a hand to pat him,
then leapt back with a squeal as Mats tried to rip him with a
tusk. Huge tusks and a pig nose adorned his face. Mith
crouched, hands to his face in exaggerated horror. And Silk, 
clad in black, leaped between Mith  and Mats with a shower of sparks, jerkin backwards,
hose about its knees, shoeless. It reached for its sword, but
Mats charged and knocked it flying; it spun out of sight.
Mats, scrambling on all fours, missed Mith, but tore his
hose. Mith scampered around the fire with Mats after him.
Silk, sword in one hand, the other tugging at the hose chased
after Mats,  beating him with the sword.

 Another figure appeared, clad in Aliera's blue gown with
Beech's head sticking out above wearing a long dark wig. Mith
cowered behind her skirts. She glared at Mats and he froze.
Silk tripped and sprawled behind him. Beech tossed his hair
back, patted Mith  reassuringly on the head, wet one finger and smoothed an eyebrow, then leisurely picked up his
bow, aimed and twanged.

 Mats leaped backwards, collapsing on top of Silk with a
very realistic death rattle. Beech and Mith embraced,
ignoring Silk, still flat beneath Mats.

 Moraelyn had begun laughing when Silk first leaped out.
Aliera had waited for Beech's appearance. Now tears were
running down her cheeks. Moraelyn was doubled over, pounding his fist against
a tree. Ripples and giggles of  silvery laughter sounded all around and showers of gold coins
fell into the circle. The Companions gathered themselves
together and bowed, as humans did.

 "Again, do it again!"

 "Noo-ooo!" Moraelyn gasped, still laughing. "Ah, you came
nearer killing me than the sow did! I beg mercy!"

 "Another night, gentle persons ... our king has had a very
long day. We thank you all."

 Gods, had the entire town seen? Edward stared behind him, but
they were all melting away into the dark. "That's not what
happened." he yelled. "You were a hero. They made fun of
you."

 "Yes, yes and yes. Especially the last. By Jephre himself,
that was funny!"

 "They all saw that! And you're going to let them do it
again?" Edward was scandalized. They had all looked
ridiculous.

 "Let them? It'll be done all over Tamriel for centuries to
come, I doubt not. But never again so well."

 "But it didn't happen like that at all."

 "It would have if Mats--I mean the sow had charged again. Ariana's bow would have been far more effective than my
poor blade. And she'd have seen Moraelyn leap like a khajiit!" His finger smoothed an eyebrow in a gesture typical of Aliera and he went off again
into a long laugh. "Aye, she'd have slain the beast with a
look, if she couldn't find an arrow. Mats, you were more like
the sow than she like herself. Bigger, too, I swear! Mith, you
old rogue, only you could look so innocent."

 "Bu-uut--it's not true!" Edward protested.

 "Boy, you think there's only one truth? Was what you saw
today truth? Did you see all the truth? Even of what did happe
n? What you saw here tonight will light up truths unseen,
if you allow it ... you could spend a lifetime reflecting
on it and yet not see it whole, for it goes ever further and
deeper, spreading like ripples in a pool, beyond us all and out into the deep stillness of forever.
What happens is only a tiny part of truth ... maybe the least
part. And what you see is smaller yet."

 Edward still thought that a king really ought to have more
dignity. But he didn't say so. ? What you saw here tonight will light up truths unseen,
if you allow it ... you could spend a lifetime reflecting
on it and yet not see it whole, for it goes ever further and
deeper, spreading like ripples in a pool, beyond us all and out into the deep stillness of forever.
What happens is only a tiny part of truth ... maybe the least
part. And what you see is smaller yet."

 Edward still thought that a king really ought to have more
dignity. But he didn't say so. 
