Title: The Faerie
Author: Szun Triop
IsNaughty: False
Price: 580
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]The Faerie



[/font=4]

 Faerie have been on Tamriel, in all probability, long
before recorded history, perhaps since or before the days of
the Elder Ones. The tales of their mischief are found in every
culture, in most every village, town, and city-states in
the Empire. Alternately they are called Faerie, Fey,
Illyadi, Sprites, Pixies, and Sylphim, and their natures seem
to flit from one story to the next with the same variation.
It could almost be said that Faeries are anything
unpredictable in nature.

 The noted scholar Ahrtabazus studying at the time in the
Crystal Tower of Sumurset Isle developed an interesting if
controversial theory about Faerie. He organized the Fey
variants on a chain, beginning with the glimmering sparks
called Pixies or Whilloki by the Redguards at one end and the
godlike beings such as Gheateus, Chonus, and Sygria at the
other. In the middle are human and semi-human beings
generating up to intelligent trees, brooks, rocks, even
mountains. All of this was a new and completely original
theory and would have prompted enthusiastic, if somewhat
skeptical response had Ahrtabazus not added this footnote:
"It may be that elves as a whole are part of this chain,
above whilloki and below nephrine. They certainly have
similar features and propensities for magicka as the other
Faerie." (Ahrtabazus, "The Faerie Chain" Firsthold, 2E 456)

 No elf liked to be put in a hierarchy slightly above
whimsical pranksters like the whilloki, and Ahrtabazus was
challenged on his assumptions based on very slight
coincidences. Nevertheless, with modification, his Fairie
Chain theory has gained wider and wider acceptance since its
publication. 

 The hierarchial chain is not, in the strictest sense, an order
of command. While Gheateus and Sygria are said to be
surrounded by a host of minor Sylphim, faerie on the whole
are not followers nor leaders. Their plans and schemes are
not governed by a higher purpose, simply by their own whim.

 To this most faerie scholars agree. Because it is based on
coincidental evidence and supported by auxiliary
theories, it may very well be wrong.







 
