Title: King Edward, Part 2
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: False
Price: 300
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]King Edward, Part 2



[/font=4]



[/center]Chapter 2:

[/center]Reunion at Firsthold

 Edward woke to a red sky. The sun was just peeking over the
western mountains. They were nearing a glittering tower,
fire flashing from every facet. The dragon veered to fly nearer and shot a long blast of flame. A
light flashed several times from the tower's top as they
dropped suddenly. Edward's stomach felt very peculiar. He
sighed and stirred and felt Moraelyn shift so that his right
arm now held Edward. He stretched and yawned.

 "Not much longer now. It's several days by horse from the
Crystal Tower to Firsthold but I judge that Akatosh will
have us there within the hour."

 "We're not stopping at the Tower? I'ric---"

 "Do not use that name so lightly, not even to me. The
ArchMagister will not return for days yet. Unicorns are brothers to the wind and travel as fast, even burdened, but
not as fast as dragons fly. You see the Elven homeland at dawn from the back of a dragon. Count yourself fortunate among men."

 Edward's gaze roamed the deep green woods and rugged hills. T
here was
no sign of habitation. "It's lovely," he said politely,
"but not so beautiful as High Rock," he added out of loyalty and truth. "Are there no towns or villages or
farms?"

 "The Firstborn live nestled deep in the trees. And they do
not tear up the earth and plant anew, but take gladly what
Auriel offers ... and make return. Ahhh, the green smell of growing things."

 Indeed, the air was as heady as the wine Edward used to sip
from his father's cup, before ... "I'm hungry."

 "I expect so." A bit of shifting and Moraelyn's left hand
produced a small leaf-wrapped package. The dusky hand was
large and strong and looked neither human nor animal. Edward stared at it with revulsion,
then took the package gingerly so as not to touch the hand. He
felt Moraelyn stiffen and the hand that held Edward relaxed its grasp
a bit. Edward felt ashamed of his reaction. It was neither
kind nor wise to give offense in the circumstances. Moraelyn
ere was
no sign of habitation. "It's lovely," he said politely,
"but not so beautiful as High Rock," he added out of loyalty and truth. "Are there no towns or villages or
farms?"

 "The Firstborn live nestled deep in the trees. And they do
not tear up the earth and plant anew, but take gladly what
Auriel offers ... and make return. Ahhh, the green smell of growing things."

 Indeed, the air was as heady as the wine Edward used to sip
from his father's cup, before ... "I'm hungry."

 "I expect so." A bit of shifting and Moraelyn's left hand
produced a small leaf-wrapped package. The dusky hand was
large and strong and looked neither human nor animal. Edward stared at it with revulsion,
then took the package gingerly so as not to touch the hand. He
felt Moraelyn stiffen and the hand that held Edward relaxed its grasp
a bit. Edward felt ashamed of his reaction. It was neither
kind nor wise to give offense in the circumstances. Moraelyn
could quite easily drop him overboard. "I need to bathe,
but so do you," he said stiffly. Moraelyn was deliberately
misinterpreting the reaction, Edward knew. "Yes, I'm very
dirty," Edward bit into the cake which proved much better
than it looked. "My lady mother's used to seeing me like
this--at least she used to be. But perhaps I should bathe
first?"

 "I think you will not be offered that choice. Ah, at last!"
The dragon spread his wings, sent a huge gout of flame
soaring skyward and dropped to earth in a large clearing.
The landing was abrupt and jarring. Elves appeared quite
suddenly and arms reached up to take him and Shag, who woke
at last, ran frantically in circles, and then sat panting
at Edward's feet.

 A tall elf with fiery hair like copper greeted them
formally. "Greetings, my lord King. Your lady wife awaits
you. Prince Edward, I welcome you to the land of the Firstborn on behalf of all its
people. May your stay here prove pleasant and productive."

 Moraelyn nodded deferentially. "Thank you, my host. My
Queen has waited long enough; we will go to her now."
Moraelyn's hand on his shoulder steered Edward toward the
largest tree he'd ever seen. The trunk was hollow; steps inside
led up; openings gave out onto more steps and bridges
along and among the mighty branches. They proceeded along
these until they reached a large canopied platform,
furnished with seats and chests as if it were a room. A golden
skinned woman smiled at them and waved them in, then left. A
tall slender, pale-skinned, dark-haired human woman paced
toward them, her eyes on Edward. Only Edward.

 "Why did you leave us!" The cry came from deep inside,
ringing through him. It stopped her several paces from him.
Now her eyes lifted to Moraelyn, who said in a harsher tone
than Edward had yet heard from him. "Thou wilt address thy Mother with respect, cub!" A glancing blow made his eyes water.

 Aliera crossed quickly to Moraelyn and placed her hands on his chest. "Greeting, my husband.
All praise to Notorgo for bringing you and my son safely to
me."

 "Thank also the Lord of the Dragons and the Bandit, who
could not have lifted the boy more neatly himself. The
ArchMagister had somewhat to do with it as well."
Moraelyn's dusky hands came up to hold her bare arms lightly and
tenderly. He laughed, looking relaxed and happy. But the
hands against his chest formed a barrier as much as a caress.

 "I am blessed indeed. But it has been long since my son and I
have spoken. We may find words more easily if we seek them
alone together."

 Moraelyn's smile vanished instantly. "Are words then a
thing which two can find more easily than three? Well.
Perhaps. At times. Wife." He turned on his heel and left. The bridge swung and creaked, but his feet made
no sound at all.

 Aliera watched after him, but he did not look back. Edward felt again the curious mix of satisfaction and
regret that came with giving pain to his enemy. "Edward, my
son, come and sit by me."

 Edward stood where he was, "Madam mother, I have waited many
years and travelled many leagues to have an answer. I will
wait no longer, nor go one step further."

 "What have you been told?"

 "That you were most treacherously kidnapped by night with
the aid of magic, while my father slept, trusting in the
honor of his guest."

 "Your father told you that. And Moraelyn?"

 "Said that you came full willing. I would hear what you say."

 "Would you hear why I left your father or why I did not take
you with me, having chosen to go."

 Edward paused, thinking, "Madam, I would hear the truth, therefore I must
give the truth. I would hear why you left me behind. The
other, I think I know, as much as I can or would know, unless you wish to tell me more or
other."

 "The truth? Truth is not a single thing existing apart from those who
apprehend it. But I will tell you my truth and perhaps then
you may arrive at your truth.

 Aliera walked back to a softly pillowed chair and composed
herself. Nearby a small ruby colored bird settled on a
branch and trilled an accompaniment to her soft voice.

 "My parents arranged my marriage as is the custom of our
homeland. I did not love Corcyr, but in the beginning I
respected him and tried to be a good wife. He did not care for
me, nor did he take care. And so he lost my respect and I died
a little each day, withering like an untended plant. I was
happy only with you, but Corcyr thought I was making you too soft. "Womanish," he said, and so, after your third
birthday I was allowed to spend only an hour each day with
you. I listened to your cries and sat weeping, without
heart for anything. Finally, you ceased crying and asking for me, and my heart was left empty. I
formed the habit of walking and riding much of the time, alone save for a guard or two. Then Moraelyn came. He
wanted to mine for ebony in the Wrothgarian Mountains. The land he
wanted to use was part of my dowry. He was willing to train
our people in the arts of its use and even to give them
weapons of Dark Elf making. In return our people were to
aid him in keeping the goblins away, and allow him to form a
colony of his people in High Rock. Corcyr had no use for the
land and he wanted the weapons very much indeed -- there are
none better -- so he favored the proposal. There were many
details to be discussed and arranged and it fell to me to
conduct these negotiations. Corcyr despises Dark Elves and he
was jealous of Moraelyn, who was already famed as the finest fighter in all Tamriel.

 "But Moraelyn is more than a skilled fighter; he's well-read and interested in everything under the sun. He sang
and played as if taught by Jeh Free and Jhim Sei both. He was
a companion such as I'd only dreamed of ... that and no
more, I swear. We both love to be outside, so our discussions took place while riding and walking, but always
accompanied by his men and Corcyr's. When all was
arranged, Corcyr gave a great feast to celebrate the
treaty. All of High Rock nobility came and many from other
provinces. At the end Corcyr was deep in his cups and let
fall an insult that could only be washed out in blood. I had
long since retired with the other ladies so I know not what it
was, but I'd heard enough in private to know that Corcyr had a store of such to choose from. Moraelyn gave the
challenge and gave Corcyr until noon, that he might recover
such wits as he had.

 "Then Moraelyn came to me, alone in my chamber, and told
me what had befallen. 'Milady, I think he will choose your
brother as his champion; in any case there will be a river of blood between us
that may not be crossed in this life or any other. I can live
without your love, but I would not have your enmity. Come
with me now, as wife or honored guest, as you choose. And you
shall serve as blood price in stead of your kith or kin.'

 "And there, in the moonlight, in my terror, with my ladies
sleeping about me, I knew I loved him. Doubted that I could
live without him. And yet, I loved you more! 'My son,' I
whispered. 'I can't--'. 'Milady, you must choose. I am
sorry.' You see, don't you, Edward? If I stayed, it meant
my brother's death -- his innocent young blood. Or your
father's! Or possibly that of the man I loved, though I
counted that most unlikely. Moraelyn's fighting skills alone were supreme, and in an
affair of this sort he would be entitled to call on magic aid as well. 'We could take him with us.' But
Moraelyn shook his head sadly, 'That I will not do. It would
go against my honor to part father and son.'

 "Leaving love alone, I am trained to duty", Aliera said
proudly. "Should I have robbed you of your father or your
loving uncle? And I thought it likely that Corcyr, should he
survive, would somehow blame me for the affair and use it
as an excuse to put me away. I thought that Corcyr would be
pleased to have me gone. I knew he wanted the weapons very
much. I could trade them for time with you, I thought." All
this passed through my mind while Moraelyn stood waiting, not
looking at me.

 "Lady Mara, help me to choose wisely, I prayed. 'You
truly want me as wife? I--I could bring you nothing but
trouble.'

 "Aliera, I would have you to wife. And I want nothing but
yourself." He shed his cloak and wrapped it round my body,
pulling the bedclothes away.

 "Moraelyn, wait--is this right, what I do?"

 "Milady, if I thought this wrong, I should not be standing
here! Of the choices you are given, this one seems to me most
right." He swung me up in his arms and carried me to his horse.
And so I left your father's house, clad only in his cloak and
riding before him. And wild joy mixed with my sorrow, so that I scarce knew how
I felt. That is my truth."

 Edward said quietly, "But he has parted my father and me in
the end."

 "With great reluctance. And only becaue the dragon says
that you and your father were in truth already parted in hear
t. It is only a matter of
more leagues. Which provide a measure of safety for you.
Moraelyn insisted that you should freely consent to come.
You are as free to return any time you wish."

 "Moraelyn would have just taken me! It was I'r--I mean, the ArchMagister, who insisted that I
must consent."

 "He's not a patient man by nature. And he is anxious to do
Corcyr no harm. Doubtless he felt the discussion could be
carried on as well elsewhere."

 "He called him King of the Small Cock. And laughed. Why?
Are Daggerfall cockerels smaller than Ebonheart birds? And
what does it matter, anyway? My father was very angry; I
think he would have liked to fight. But it's true he hates me. I
knew that, but I didn't want to know, so I pretended not to.
I don't suppose Moraelyn would do that."

 "No."

. It is only a matter of
more leagues. Which provide a measure of safety for you.
Moraelyn insisted that you should freely consent to come.
You are as free to return any time you wish."

 "Moraelyn would have just taken me! It was I'r--I mean, the ArchMagister, who insisted that I
must consent."

 "He's not a patient man by nature. And he is anxious to do
Corcyr no harm. Doubtless he felt the discussion could be
carried on as well elsewhere."

 "He called him King of the Small Cock. And laughed. Why?
Are Daggerfall cockerels smaller than Ebonheart birds? And
what does it matter, anyway? My father was very angry; I
think he would have liked to fight. But it's true he hates me. I
knew that, but I didn't want to know, so I pretended not to.
I don't suppose Moraelyn would do that."

 "No."

 "He'd lie, though. He thought about telling me he was my father. I could see it."

 Aliera threw back her head and laughed her pretty rippling
laugh; he remembered it from long ago, and it sent shivers
down his back. "He must have wanted to claim it very badly
indeed if he let you see it; he's usually quicker than that.
And he does not lie under oath, or to hurt those he loves."

 "He doesn't love me; he doesn't even like me."

 "But I do, my dear son. You--" Edward thought she was going
to say he'd grown; adults always remarked on his growth, even
if he'd just seen them a week ago. Very strange, since he was
small for his age. Instead she said, "You're just as I
thought you'd be," with deep maternal satisfaction.

 "And he loves you. But he said he was no one's errand boy.
Yet you dismissed him as if he were."

 Aliera's face and neck burned a deep crimson.

 "Nay, though I am reduced to serving man, it seems."
Moraely
n had entered silently, bearing a huge tray piled high
with food. "Get me a stool, boy, you can play page if I can
play server. You must be famished and I thought I'd best
return before my wife gets round to the rest of my faults.
Could take her most of the day listing them." He'd shed the mail and bathed and dressed
in fresh black jerkin and hose with a silvery sash tied round
his narrow waist. But the black sword still swung by his
side.

 "Mara help us, you've enough food for a small army. And
I've broken my fast." Aliera's small hand reached for the
elf's arm, slid down it caressingly, then clasped his hand
and squeezed it, lifting it to her still hot cheek, brushing
it with her lips. Edward looked away quickly, discomforted by
the sight of his dusky skin against her fairness.

 "This's for me, and a bit for the boy. But pray join us, my
dear. You've grown thin. Pining for me, no doubt." He
wrapped a lock of her dark curly hair around a finger and
tugged at it, grinning, then fell on the food like a
starving wolf, attacking it with small silvery weapons inste
ad of eating with his
fingers as humans did. The food was -- wonderful. Edward ate
until he could eat no more.

 "Eavesdropping," he murmured thoughtfully. He'd been
mulling over a list of Moraelyn's faults while he ate, and realized too late that he'd
spoken aloud.

 "By Zenithar, boy, if you humans will shout your privy conversation all over the tree, d'ye
expect me to shut my ears with wool?" He tapped one of his
large pointed ears. Edward hurriedly tried to remember what
they'd said. What he'd said. Lying. Oh dear. Maybe he hadn't
heard.

 "So I'm a liar, am I, boy?" Vir Gil help him, Edward felt
he was drowning. Could the Elf read minds? He hoped that
wasn't the insult his father had used! "I -- I meant I thought
that you were thinking about it. You did hesitate," Edward
gulped. He was making matters worse.

 "Possibly, I was trying to remember ... " the sardonic
 had entered silently, bearing a huge tray piled high
with food. "Get me a stool, boy, you can play page if I can
play server. You must be famished and I thought I'd best
return before my wife gets round to the rest of my faults.
Could take her most of the day listing them." He'd shed the mail and bathed and dressed
in fresh black jerkin and hose with a silvery sash tied round
his narrow waist. But the black sword still swung by his
side.

 "Mara help us, you've enough food for a small army. And
I've broken my fast." Aliera's small hand reached for the
elf's arm, slid down it caressingly, then clasped his hand
and squeezed it, lifting it to her still hot cheek, brushing
it with her lips. Edward looked away quickly, discomforted by
the sight of his dusky skin against her fairness.

 "This's for me, and a bit for the boy. But pray join us, my
dear. You've grown thin. Pining for me, no doubt." He
wrapped a lock of her dark curly hair around a finger and
tugged at it, grinning, then fell on the food like a
starving wolf, attacking it with small silvery weapons inste
ad of eating with his
fingers as humans did. The food was -- wonderful. Edward ate
until he could eat no more.

 "Eavesdropping," he murmured thoughtfully. He'd been
mulling over a list of Moraelyn's faults while he ate, and realized too late that he'd
spoken aloud.

 "By Zenithar, boy, if you humans will shout your privy conversation all over the tree, d'ye
expect me to shut my ears with wool?" He tapped one of his
large pointed ears. Edward hurriedly tried to remember what
they'd said. What he'd said. Lying. Oh dear. Maybe he hadn't
heard.

 "So I'm a liar, am I, boy?" Vir Gil help him, Edward felt
he was drowning. Could the Elf read minds? He hoped that
wasn't the insult his father had used! "I -- I meant I thought
that you were thinking about it. You did hesitate," Edward
gulped. He was making matters worse.

 "Possibly, I was trying to remember ... " the sardonic
d of eating with his
fingers as humans did. The food was -- wonderful. Edward ate
until he could eat no more.

 "Eavesdropping," he murmured thoughtfully. He'd been
mulling over a list of Moraelyn's faults while he ate, and realized too late that he'd
spoken aloud.

 "By Zenithar, boy, if you humans will shout your privy conversation all over the tree, d'ye
expect me to shut my ears with wool?" He tapped one of his
large pointed ears. Edward hurriedly tried to remember what
they'd said. What he'd said. Lying. Oh dear. Maybe he hadn't
heard.

 "So I'm a liar, am I, boy?" Vir Gil help him, Edward felt
he was drowning. Could the Elf read minds? He hoped that
wasn't the insult his father had used! "I -- I meant I thought
that you were thinking about it. You did hesitate," Edward
gulped. He was making matters worse.

 "Possibly, I was trying to remember ... " the sardonic
tone was back.

 "You don't even like me!" Edward burst out.

 "That doesn't seem to have stopped your true father from claiming you."

 "Moraelyn! Don't!" Aliera interrupted, but the Elf held
up his hand to quiet her.

 "I'm not so sure." Edward flashed.

 "Why do you say that?"

 "I don't know--Roane says--things--and I'm not at all like
him. Everyone remarks on it. And then stops talking."

 "What--things? Speak, boy!"

 "About how fond Mother was of her brother when they were
young. How sad and angry he was when she was carried off. More
like a lover, she said, than a brother. She says it very
sweetly, but like she means something by it. Something too
dirty to say. Other times she talks about how elfin I look. And how
quickly after marriage I came. Not as quickly as her first
son, though."

 Moraelyn leaped up. "By the Avenger, I will go back and
wring the vixen's neck! The human--", he bit off the insult,
but his red eyes flamed rage; his muscles swelled and his hair
stood on end. "You do not look half-elven. I never met your
mother until four years after your conception. Roane, it
seems, cannot decide which lie she wishes to use. But incest!
May Kel strike her down if I may not." The tall elf paced
furiously about the room, lithe as a Khajiit, hand fondling his sword hilt. The
platform swayed and dipped.

 "She's ambitious for her sons, at Edward's expense. The
question is, how many will believe her. Not enough if she was
planning to have him killed instead." Aliera's smooth brow
wrinkled a bit. "I never disliked her, you know. Nor she me. She
wanted my place and I was glad enough to let her have it
save for Edward."

 "You want me to be king so I'll let you have the ebon mines."
Edward had just worked out the puzzle.

 "Oh, devil take the ebon, which he probably will. I've a better chance
of getting co-operation from Roane's boys once your
father's dead. They'd have reason for gratitude and the
bargain's a good one. Although the chances they could keep a
civil tongue long enough to sign a contract seem poor, given their parentage."

 "Then why? You don't even like me."

 "Mara, help me! 'Liking' a person is a human concept. One
day they like you, the next day they don't. On Tirdas they're
back to liking you again. My own wife does this to me, but
claims to love me even when she doesn't like me. Except of
course on the days when she doesn't do either, and talks about
joining the Order of Riana. Fortunately that only happens
once a year or so. I go hunting until she comes to her
senses."

 "You exaggerate; that only happened once, and well you
know it."

 "I remember enjoying the recovery period. Maybe it should
happen more often." They grinned at each other.

 "But why do you want me to be King?" Edward persisted.

 "I told you; it's Akatosh's notion. And the ArchMagister's. I just came along for
the ride. Ask them."

 "I shall ask the ArchMagister when I see him."

 "An excellent plan. You'll spend a few weeks at the Tower
before heading north with us."

 "Only that?"

 "Does the prospect of spending the winter with your mother
and me displease you so much?"

 "No ... no, sir. But I agreed to go with I'ric." Not you.
The words hung unsaid between them.

 "You will, in time. A few weeks there now will fit you to
begin your training in magic; I can teach you spells. But you need
hardening; your body must catch up to your mind. It is the
ArchMagister's will."

 "Fighting magic? I want to learn other things. How to call
beasts. How to heal. And float..."

 "You'll learn that, I doubt not. And d'ye think a fighter
can't Heal? It's the first spell you'll learn. But a King
must know how to fight."

 "I'm not good at it."

 "Dragon's Teeth, boy! Exactly why you must learn!"

 "If I cannot?"

 "You've courage and a clear head and the potential to
learn magic; that's more than most people ever have. I can
teach you the rest."

 Edward's head whirled with the unaccustomed praise. "I do? I
have? You can?"

 "D'ye think any of your father's fool court would stand
naked before a dragon, a unicorn, the ArchMagister, and the
Champion of Tamriel and demand justice of them? Justice!
Faced with such, they might have managed to beg for mercy, if
they could speak at all, which is doubtful."

 "I did that? I did, didn't I?" Edward was astonished; he wanted to
add that he hadn't known, hadn't thought about it ... 

 "Aye, you did. And it's a deed that shall be sung from here
to Morrowwind; I'll compose the ballad myself--as soon as
I have a nap. I don't sleep as sound as some on dragon's
backs."

 "You enchanted me and Shag asleep!"

 "And the rest of the castle, with the help of my friends."

 "Ooooohhhh. Can you levitate? Will you show me?"

 "Not so fast. I kept a holding spell on us all night to keep
us on the dragon's back.  Until I'm rested I couldn't light a
candle with the aid of a match."

 "Oh. Well, I'd still rather be like the ArchMagister than be
a fighter."

 "Hah! It'll be news to the ArchMagister that he cannot fight! I hope
he'll find time to show you how to wield a staff. No better
weapon for early training. And no better trainer. Now, of
the four you saw before you, which would you say could best
the others?"

 Edward thought carefully for several minutes. "Sir, my
judgement is poor indeed, but if you would still have my
answer, it would seem that the one who claims the title
Champion of Tamriel must be the best. Yet must not the
ArchMagister be your master in magic? And trained to arms as well, it
seems. So which should prevail? Could any mortal stand
against the dragon's fire and claws and teeth? And I know
naught of the unicorn, save that it is fleet and has a very
sharp horn, and hooves as well. So I will guess the
unicorn; it had the mildest manner. And since you asked the
question it seems the unlikely answer may be correct."

 "Well answered, youngling! The unicorn would win easily in any
single close combat. No mortal or even dragon can move
quickly enough to land a blow and it cannot be burned or
touched by any magic or elemental power. It's hooves are
deadly and a single touch of its horn will kill any enemy,
although the horn itself will burn away. The most powerful can regenerate it
within moments, however.

 "And of the four the Champion of Tamriel would probably
be the loser against any of the others, although the title is
no idle boast! Moraelyn is not accustomed to being so
outclassed. My manners may have suffered in consequence."

 "Milord King, I am most deeply in your debt. You have done me great honor and service. If ever
I can repay you, I will. Forgive my brash words and ill
manners. I have dwelt among the rude and boorish. And it seems I have no father, unless I may call you so?" The elf held his hands out to the boy, who placed his own in them. Edward's feeling of
distaste was quite gone...as if by magic...the thought
drifted through his mind ... and then he released his hands and
clasped Moraelyn about his waist. The elf's hands stroked the
dark hair and clasped the thin shoulders.

 "I thank you, my wife. After only five years of marriage,
you have presented me with a fine son, nine years of age.
Remarkable. In fact...magical."

 
