Title: Legal Basics
Author: Anchivius, M.Z.F. 
IsNaughty: False
Price: 636
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]Legal Basics



[/font=4]

[/center]

[/center]    Ignorance of the law is no defense. Be forewarned that the
following are but the most universal of Tamrielan laws and
regulations. Your own local province or principality may
have unique laws of its own. As a citizen of Empire, it is
your right and responsibility to know and follow these laws
of the land.

    Breaking and Entering:    This refers to any act including,
but not limited to opening, breaking, incinerating,
magically transporting, or in any way causing a door,
window, or other portal that has been magically or
mundanely locked or which a reasonable person would assume
to be so restricted to be passable, and the act (though the
act is not required for the definition) of entering the house,
business, or public location through said defined portal.
The punishment for this crime may include a fine or
incarceration, or a fine and incarceration.    The fine and
incarceration, or both, or neither, may be less in a crime of
Attempted Breaking and Entering. A crime of Attempted
Breaking and Entering is defined as an any act that a
reasonable person would perceive as the preparation for,
an attempt (whether successful or not, or perceived to be
possibly successful or not) to bring about the opening,
breaking, incinerating, magically transporting, or in any
way causing a door, window, or other portal that has been
magically or mundanely locked or which a reasonable person
would assume to be so restricted to be passable, and the act
(though the act is not required for the definition) of
preparing or attempting (whether successful or not,
perceived to be possibly successful or not) entering the
house, business, or public location through said defined
portal.

     Trespassing:     This refers to walking, flying, riding,
teleporting, floating, or in any way moving or existing on
a property without the explicit written or spoken
permission (or permission a reasonable person might infer)
of the owner or caretaker of the property. The punishment for
this crime may include a fine or incarceration, or a fine
and incarceration.

     Assault     Any threat or attempt (whether successful or
not) to do physical, emotional, mental, or magical harm or
injury to another person, group of persons, or entity a
reasonable person might assume to be sentient. The
punishment for this crime may include a fine or
incarceration, or a fine and incarceration.

     Murder     Any act of premeditated or malicious or
premeditated and malicious (or an act that a reasonable
person would call premeditated and malicious or
premeditated or malicious) or accidental but criminally
intended (or what a reasonable person would call
criminally intended) purpose that results directly in the
death (or destruction with implied death) of a person,
group of persons, or entity a reasonable person might
assume to be sentient. The punishment for this crime may
include a fine or incarceration, or a fine and
incarceration.

     Criminal Conspiracy     Any meeting, communication, or
encounter with the purpose (or which a reasonable person
might assume had the purpose) of preparing or arranging a
crime of any kind (or crimes of any kind) to be commited or
caused to be commited. The punishment for this crime may
include a fine or incarceration, or a fine and
incarceration.

     Vagrancy     Any act of idleness, disorder, begging, or
conduct unbecoming a person with occupation, gold, or a
home, (or occupation, gold, and a home, or occupation or
gold and home, or occupation and gold or home, or
occupation and home or gold), or what a reasonable person
would consider idle, disorderly, beggarly, or unbecoming.
The punishment for this crime may include a fine or
incarceration, or a fine and incarceration.

     Smuggling     Any act of bringing in, taking out,
teleporting, or causing to be brought in, taken out, or
teleported an object considered illegal or, if not
illegal, requiring an import or export tax which is not paid.
The punishment for this crime may include a fine or
incarceration, or a fine and incarceration, and will
include confiscation of the offensive or illegal object. It
may also include, but not be restricted to, execution or
banishment, or execution and banishment.

     High Treason     Any act against (whether directly or
indirectly, or any nonaction which results in
circumstances, directly or indirectly, against) a
allegiated sovereign or by a vassal to a liege, resulting
(or what a reasonable person would assume would result) in
physical, emotional, mental, or magical harm or injury in
said sovereign or liege. The punishment for this crime will
be death.

     Pickpocketing     Any act of stealing, taking, or, without
explicit written or verbal permission (or what a
reasonable person would infer as implied permission) an
item or items a person, group of persons, or entity a
reasonable person might assume to be sentient has on his,
her, its, or their own person. The punishment for this crime
may include a fine or incarceration, or a fine and
incarceration.

     Theft     (sometimes called Larceny)     Any act of
stealing, taking, or, without explicit written or verbal
permission (or what a reasonable person would infer as
implied permission) an item or items from a person, group of
persons, or entity a reasonable person might assume to be
sentient's place of residence, business, person, or other
location a reasonable person would assume is secured from
looting. The punishment for this crime may include a fine or
incarceration, or a fine and incarceration.

     These are the usual, day-to-day definitions used by legal
experts (like myself), but both the definitions and
punishments may fluctuate wildly according to location
and situation. In the Imperial City, legal counsel is
available by persons like myself, but the provinces have no
such system in place. Perhaps that will change in time. We
can all hope so.

     As a final note: the Tamriel legal system has its basis in
the civilized, reasonable credo uttered by the prophet
Marukh in the first era: "All are guilty until they have
proven themselves innocent." Were truer word ever spoke?

 
