Title: Of Jephre
Author: Anonymous
IsNaughty: False
Price: 738
IsUnique: False
WhenVarSet: 
Content:


[/font=2]

[/center]Of

[/center]Jephre



[/font=4]

[/center]



 When the elven folk walked the land alone and sang songs of
power amongst the trees and stars, Jephre the Singer walked
with them. Jephre gave heed to the nature of the forests and
delighted in the gurgling streams and brooks. It was Jephre
who taught the birds to sing their songs of the seasons and He
that taught the streams the tinkling ethereal tune. The very
trees are said to have moved close to hear him sing on the warm
summer nights of those elder days. It was in this time that the
first great ballads of the elves were made, crafted from the
songs that Jephre taught to the sylvan youth who frolicked to
his lively tunes and ballads of nature and the unspoiled
forest. In truth, He is worshipped as god of song and forest.

 In Valenwood, Jephre is considered one of the Major Sylvan
gods with temples and altars in the deep woodland places.
Elven tradition holds that children with a gift for song have
been blessed by Jephre himself. Legend has it he blessed the
Wood Elves with a natural affinity for nature and
particularly the forest. Most Wood Elven Rangers worship
Jephre.

 It was his great eagerness for natural beauty that led him to
the Isle of Sumurset. He taught the great sea birds to sing and
molded the crash of wave against beach into a song of
whispers and power  It is said by the high elves that Jephre
hears and sees all within distance of water, whether it be
beach, brook, stream or fall. It is further said that the
very birds keep watch for Jephre, in repayment for the songs
he taught them. It is fruther said he blessed the high elves
with a beauty to match the beauty of their island home.

 The dark elves have a legend that Jephre walked the earth
before the first day, and in the light of the stars weaved a
song so beautiful that the very stars moved to its sway.
Some of the stars to this very day still wink and blink in
memory of the song of night and darkness. Due to his influence
most if not all Elven Bards pay homage to Jephre.

 The natural order of things is the basis for Jephre's temples
in Valenwood and the Sumurset Isle. The one thing Jephre
will not tolerate is the harmful manipulation of the natural
order of things.   
